
10-K
1
admp-10k_033112.htm
ANNUAL REPORT






 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
(Mark one)


S
 
Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
2012
 
OR
 


£
 
Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Commission File Number 000-26372
 
ADAMIS
PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 


Delaware
 
82-0429727

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 


11455 El Camino Real, Suite 310, San Diego, CA  92130

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)  (zip code)

 
Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code: (858) 997-2400
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:
 


None
 
None

(Title of each class)
 
(Name of each exchange on which registered)

 
Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
Common
Stock, $0.0001 par value
(Title of class)
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.


YES  £
 
    NO  S

 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.


YES  £
 
    NO  S

 
Note - Checking the box above will not relieve any registrant
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act from their obligations under those sections.
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.


YES
  S
 
    NO  £

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).


YES  S
 
    NO  £

 
 

 
 

 
Indicate by check mark
if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  S
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
 


Large accelerated filer  £
Accelerated filer  £
Non-accelerated filer  £
Smaller reporting company  S

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).


YES  £
 
    NO  S

 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the Registrant as of September 30, 2011, was $16,130,794.
 
At June 13, 2012, the Company had 98,146,589 shares outstanding.
 
Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the
proxy statement for the 2012 annual stockholders meeting are incorporated by reference into Part III.
 

 
 

 
ADAMIS PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2012
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 


Part I
 

Page No.

 
 
 
 

Item 1.
BUSINESS
 
1

 
 
 
 

Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS
 
26

 
 
 
 

Item 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
 
40

 
 
 
 

Item 2.
PROPERTIES
 
40

 
 
 
 

Item 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
40

 
 
 
 

Item 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
 
41

 
 
 
 

Part II
 
 

 
 
 
 

Item 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 
42

 
 
 
 

Item 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
43

 
 
 
 

Item 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
50

 
 
 
 

Item 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
50

 
 
 
 

Item 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 
50

 
 
 
 

Item 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION
 
52

 
 
 
 

Part III
 
 

 
 
 
 

Item 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
53

 
 
 
 

Item 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
53

 
 
 
 

Item 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
53

 
 
 
 

Item 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 
53

 
 
 
 

Item 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
 
53

 
 
 
 

Part IV
 
 

 
 
 
 

Item 15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
54

 

i
 

 
Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes
“forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which provides
a “safe harbor” for these types of statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but are based
on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, our beliefs and our assumptions. These forward-looking statements
include statements about our strategies, objectives and our future achievement. To the extent statements in this Annual Report
involve, without limitation, our expectations for growth, estimates of future revenue, our sources and uses of cash, our liquidity
needs, our current or planned clinical trials or research and development activities, product development timelines, our future
products, regulatory matters, expense, profits, cash flow balance sheet items or any other guidance on future periods, these statements
are forward-looking statements. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of word or phrases such as “believe,”
“will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,”
and “would.” These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and concern matters that could
subsequently differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially
from those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as may be required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation
to release publicly the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements or to reflect events or circumstances arising
after the date of this Report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in these forward-looking
statements are disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, those discussion under “Item
1A. Risk Factors,” in “Item 1. Business” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as other risks identified from time to time in our filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other communications.
 
In addition, many forward-looking statements
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements concerning, among other matters, current or planned clinical trials, anticipated
research and development activities, anticipated dates for commencement of clinical trials, anticipated completion dates of clinical
trials, anticipated dates for submissions to obtain required regulatory marketing approvals, anticipated dates for commercial introduction
of products, and other statements concerning our future operations and activities, assume that we are able to obtain sufficient
funding in the near term and thereafter to support such activities and continue our operations and planned activities. As discussed
herein, including under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we require additional funding to continue operations, and there are no assurances
that such funding will be available. Failure to timely obtain required funding would adversely affect and could delay or prevent
our ability to realize the results contemplated by such forward looking statements.
 
Unless the context otherwise requires,
the terms “we,” “our,” and “the Company” refer to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware
corporation, and its subsidiaries. Savvy, C31G®, Aerokid®, AeroOtic®, and Prelone® are our trademarks, among others.
We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this document.
 

 
 

 
PART I

ITEM 1: BUSINESS

 
In the discussion below, all statements
concerning market sizes, annual U.S. sales of products, U.S. prescriptions and rates of prescriptions, the incidence of diseases
or conditions in the general population, and similar statistical or market information are based on data published by the following
sources: IMS Health Sales Perspectives, Retail and Non-Retail Combined Report, referred to as the IMS Report; National Data Corporation’s
Epinephrine Prescription and Dollar Data, referred to as the NDC Report; Commercial and Pipeline Insight: Allergic Rhinitis, published
by DataMonitor, referred to as the DataMonitor Report; AAAAI — American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology Allergy
Statistics for the U.S., referred to as the AAAAI Statistics; American Cancer Society, Cancer, Facts & Figures 2009, referred
to as ACS Statistics; and SEER Cancer Statistics Review, 1975-2007, National Cancer Institute, referred to as the NCI Statistics.
 
Company Overview
 
Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation is an
emerging pharmaceutical company engaged in the development and commercialization of a variety of specialty pharmaceutical products.
Our products are concentrated in major therapeutic areas including oncology (cancer), immunology and infectious diseases (viruses)
and allergy and respiratory.
 
We are focused on the development of preventive
and therapeutic vaccine products and cancer drugs for patients with unmet medical needs. During 2010, we acquired rights under
three exclusive license agreements covering three small molecule compounds, named APC-100, APC-200 and APC-300, that we believe
are promising drug candidates for the potential treatment of human prostate cancer (PCa). The intellectual property covered by
the agreements was licensed from the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, or WARF. In 2006 and 2007, APC-100 and APC-200, respectively,
received the National Cancer Institute’s multi-year, multi-million dollar RAPID (Rapid Access to Preventative Intervention
Development) Award. The NCI Division of Cancer Prevention gives this award each year under the RAPID Program to promising new preventative/
therapeutic anti-cancer drugs.
 
We previously submitted an Investigational
New Drug application, or IND, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, seeking approval to permit us to commence human
clinical trials for the APC-100 compound in men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer. On August 11, 2011, we announced
that we had enrolled the first patient in a Phase 1/2a prostate cancer clinical study relating to the use of the APC-100 product
to treat men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The study began at the University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center and
was extended to the Wayne State University Karmanos Cancer Institute.
 
In April 2011, we acquired exclusive rights
to patented telomerase-based cancer vaccine technology from the Regents of the University of California. At the same time, we acquired
exclusive rights to a related patent from the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center. We intend to pursue development of the technology
initially for what we believe may be a novel cell-based vaccine product for prostate cancer, tentatively named TeloB-VAX. The technology
is intended to activate the body’s natural defense machinery to stimulate an immune response against one of nature’s
most prevalent tumor markers, telomerase. We believe that the technology may have applicability to a variety of other kinds of
cancer.
 
We have also acquired exclusive license
rights to other patented potentially preventative and therapeutic vaccine technology. The vaccine technology may be applicable
to certain viral-induced diseases such as influenza and hepatitis B and C, as well as prostate cancer. However, we currently intend
to focus initially on the development of one or more of the other recently licensed prostate cancer product candidates and technologies,
and as a result the timing of development of this viral vaccine technology is subject to uncertainty.
 
We are also focused on developing and commercializing
products in the anti-inflammatory, allergy and respiratory field. We have developed an Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 (0.3mg
Pre-Filled Single Dose Syringe) product, or the single dose PFS Syringe product, a pre-filled epinephrine syringe product for use
in the emergency treatment of extreme acute allergic reactions, or anaphylactic shock. If launched, the product will compete in
a well-established U.S. market estimated to be over $220 million in annual sales, based on industry data. Following discussions
with the FDA during fiscal 2011, we completed a regulatory dossier relating to the product, and once we obtain sufficient funding
to support the costs of proceeding with the FDA filing for regulatory approval and the costs of a commercial launch of the product,
we intend to submit an application to the FDA for marketing approval of the product and to commercially market the product as soon
as reasonably practicable after the FDA allows for marketing of the product.
 

1
 

 
Additional product candidates in our allergy
and respiratory product pipeline include a steroid HFA (hydrofluoroalkane) metered dose inhaler product, referred to as APC-1000,
for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD; a generic HFA bronchodilator, referred to as APC-2000; and an HFA
pressurized metered dose nasal steroid for the treatment of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis, referred to as APC-3000.
Our goal is to commence initial commercial sales of the APC-3000 nasal steroid product in the third quarter of calendar 2014 and
two other respiratory products in calendar 2015. During fiscal 2011, we entered into a strategic manufacturing, supply, and product
development agreement with Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Beximco is a leading manufacturer of pharmaceutical formulations and active
pharmaceutical ingredients in Bangladesh. Beximco has a large number of products covering broad therapeutic categories, including
asthma and allergy inhalers, antibiotics, anti-hypertensives, anti-diabetics, and anti-retrovirals. Adamis and Beximco intend to
introduce a number of separate drugs into the U.S. over the next years in the allergy and respiratory areas and may co-develop
certain drugs.
 
We also have a contraceptive gel
product candidate named Savvy (C31G®). In December 2010, we announced the successful completion of a Phase 3 contraceptive
trial of Savvy. The study met its primary endpoint and was conducted by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development (NICHD), National Institutes of Health (NIH), in the Contraceptive Clinical Trials Network at 14 sites
in the United States. The Phase 3 trial was a randomized, double-masked, controlled comparator study to assess whether a gel containing
the spermicide C31G was non-inferior to Conceptrol®, a commercially available product containing nonoxynol-9 (N-9). The clinical
investigators found that C31G was not inferior in contraceptive efficacy to the comparator drug. Moreover, the gel was well-tolerated
and had a high degree of acceptability in women who completed the study. Currently, to our knowledge all spermicides commercially
available in the U.S. contain the active ingredient N-9 in a carrier such as a gel, film, cream, foam, suppository, or tablet.
C31G does not contain nonoxynol-9 and, if commercialized, may offer an alternative for women who seek a non-hormonal method of
contraception. In considering commercialization alternatives, we will likely focus on seeking to enter into an out-licensing or
similar transaction with organizations that have a focus or business unit in the area of contraception.
 
Our general business strategy is to generate
revenue through launch of our allergy and respiratory products in development, in order to generate cash flow to help fund expansion
of our allergy and respiratory business, as well as support our future cancer and vaccine product development efforts. To achieve
our goals and support our overall strategy, we will need to raise a substantial amount of funding and make substantial investments
in equipment, new product development and working capital. We estimate that approximately $2.5 million to $3 million will be required
to support the regulatory application and a commercial launch of the PFS Syringe product following marketing approval, and that
an additional approximately $6-$9 million or more must be invested to support development and commercial introduction of our APC-3000
aerosolized nasal steroid product candidate and our two other allergy and respiratory product candidates.
 
Corporate Background
 
Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation was founded
in June 2006 as a Delaware corporation. Effective April 1, 2009, the company formerly named Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation,
or Old Adamis, completed a business combination transaction with Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Cellegy. Before the merger,
Cellegy was a public company and Old Adamis was a private company. In connection with the consummation of the merger and pursuant
to the terms of the definitive merger agreement relating to the transaction, Cellegy was the surviving corporation in the merger
and changed its name from Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, and Old Adamis survived as a wholly-owned
subsidiary and changed its corporate name to Adamis Corporation.
 

2
 

 
We have three wholly-owned subsidiaries:
Adamis Corporation; Biosyn, Inc., which has rights to the C31G product; and Cellegy Holdings, Inc. Adamis Corporation has two wholly-owned
subsidiaries: Adamis Viral Therapies, Inc., or Adamis Viral, which was formed to focus on our cancer and vaccine technologies;
and Adamis Laboratories, Inc., or Adamis Labs, which was formed to focus on our allergy and respiratory products.
 
Allergy and Respiratory Specialty Pharmaceutical Products
 
Our current allergy and respiratory product
pipeline includes the single dose epinephrine pre-filled PFS Syringe product, an inhaled nasal steroid product candidate, and additional
asthma and allergy products.
 
Single Dose Epinephrine Pre-Filled
Syringe Product
 
There is a well-defined, market in the United
States for patient-administered emergency epinephrine injectors used in the treatment of anaphylaxis. Based on information in the
AAAAI Statistics, in the U.S., an estimated 5% of the population suffers from insect sting anaphylaxis, up to 6% are latex sensitive
and up to 1.5% of adults and 5% of children under three years of age experience food related anaphylaxis. In January 2001, a published
study by AAAAI revealed that up to 40 million Americans may be at risk for anaphylaxis, a significantly higher number than the
historically estimated at-risk population; the actual number could be lower than this estimate. According to information in
the AAAAI Statistics, approximately 3,000 people in the U.S. die each year from anaphylaxis; the actual number of deaths in any
particular year could, of course, be lower than this estimate.
 
The number of prescriptions for epinephrine
products has grown annually, as the risk of anaphylaxis has become more widely understood. According to the IMS Report, total prescriptions
for EpiPen® products more than doubled in the five year period from 2001 to 2005. Based on information in the IMS Report and
more recently from NDC data, the U.S. epinephrine injector market was approximately $220 million in sales in 2008 and has historically
grown at a rate of approximately 15% per year. We believe that the growth rate of annual prescriptions will decline, and there
are no assurances concerning the rate of annual growth or whether annual prescriptions will decline or grow in the future.
 
EpiPen® was originally developed by
Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc. as an auto-injection system for use by military personnel. It was designed for self-administration
as an antidote for chemical warfare agents and morphine. The EpiPen® products were introduced to the market in 1982 and were
the only epinephrine injectors for allergic emergencies that were available until 2005. In August 2005, another company introduced
a competing product, Twinject® Dual Pack, (and now Adrenaclick®) 0.3mg epinephrine auto injectors.
 
We believe that there are certain difficulties
relating to, or limitations on, market entry for new competitors based on epinephrine’s susceptibility to contamination,
sensitivity to heat and light and a short shelf-life, as well as the need for a competitor to possess the expertise to overcome
the packaging and delivery challenges of introducing a competing product to the market. We also believe that the size of the market
may be too small to be a major focus of the large pharmaceutical companies, although there can be no assurances that this will
be the case.
 
We believe that the primary opportunity
lies in the 0.3 mg segment, which constitutes a substancial majority of the total market, based on EpiPen unit sales history and
the NDC Report. When sales of dual packs of EpiPen and TwinJect/Adrenaclick are converted to single units, the total target market
in the U.S. is estimated to be at least 2.5 million single units per year.
 
We believe that there is an opportunity
for a simple, low-cost, intuitive and user-friendly pre-filled syringe to compete in this largest segment of the market. We believe
that the PFS Syringe product has the potential to compete against other marketed products based on the following factors, among
others:
 


 
●
Lower Price. We believe that a lower-priced option may be attractive to individuals potentially susceptible to anaphylaxis, as well as managed healthcare drug reimbursement plans providing patient prescription reimbursement. If marketed, we expect to introduce the PFS Syringe product at a price point reflecting a discount to the price of the leading products, in part to make the product more attractive to customers.

 
●
Ease of Use. EpiPen®, EpiPen® Jr., Twinject® and Adrenaclick® are powerful spring-loaded auto-injector devices. If not administered properly, they can misfire or be misused. Our PFS pre-filled 0.3mg syringe will allow patients to self-administer (self-inject) a pre-measured epinephrine dose quickly with a device that does not have moving parts that the user cannot control.

 

3
 

 
We believe that the PFS Syringe product,
if introduced, may acquire a share of the market in a manner somewhat similar to the pattern established by generic drugs, in that
the price differential between the expected price of the PFS Syringe product and the price at which the market-leading product
is currently sold will motivate purchasers and reimbursing payors to choose the lower cost alternative. We also believe, however,
that if our product competes successfully, at least one of the current competitors may introduce a competing, low-priced, pre-filled
single dose syringe while maintaining the price points of its existing product lines. We believe that the PFS Syringe product has
the potential to compete successfully, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case.
 
Our ability to implement a commercial launch
of the PFS Syringe product has been materially hampered by various factors, including limited funding and regulatory considerations.
In addition, we will need to file an application with the FDA, and the FDA will need to approve the application and grant marketing
approval, before the product may be launched and marketed. As we have previously reported, at a time when we were not engaged in
any sales or marketing of the PFS Syringe product and did not have funding to support such sales and marketing activities, in June
2010 we received a warning letter from the FDA indicating that we should not market the PFS Syringe product without FDA marketing
approval, should take prompt action to correct certain violations cited in the letter including failure to have FDA marketing approval,
and should respond within 15 days of the receipt of the letter. We subsequently responded and met with the FDA, noted that a number
of other epinephrine products have been marketed for many years without FDA marketing approvals, and advocated for “fair
play” in the market with other similarly situated epinephrine drug products that remain on the market without FDA marketing
approval. Following several further discussions with the FDA concerning the filing fees that would be applicable to a marketing
approval application by us, we believe that the filing fee for an application for marketing approval would be approximately $920,000
and will likely increase after September 30, 2012. We have completed a regulatory dossier relating to the product, and once
we obtain sufficient funding to support the costs of proceeding with the FDA filing for regulatory approval, including the filing
fee, and the costs of a commercial launch of the product, we intend to submit an application to the FDA for marketing approval
of the product and to commercially market the product as soon as reasonably practicable after the FDA allows for marketing of the
product.
 
Inhaled and Nasal Steroid Products
 
We are developing an aerosolized inhaled
nasal steroid product, which we refer to as APC-3000, for the treatment of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis. The market
for inhaled nasal steroids, or INS, as estimated by us based on the DataMonitor Report, is at least $3 billion annually. Our product
will target a small niche within this market. Although the market is dominated by two multi-national pharmaceutical companies,
we believe there is a niche that can be exploited and that our product candidate can achieve a small, but meaningful share of this
market.
 
INS products are sold under prescription
for seasonal allergic rhinitis. In addition to inhaled nasal steroids, many different types of products treat the symptoms of allergic
rhinitis: in general, physicians view intranasal steroids as safe and effective. There are four major physician specialties that
treat patients with allergic rhinitis: allergists; otolaryngologists, or ENTs; primary care physicians; and pediatricians. On an
individual basis, the allergist is the largest prescriber of products within the INS category. ENT physicians contribute approximately
one-half as many prescriptions as allergists, but that is still significantly larger than the volume of the average primary care
physician.
 
Currently, the INS market is dominated by
aqueous solution formulations delivered by a pump. These aqueous pump spray formulations have replaced chlorofluorocarbons, or
CFC, propellant INS products, which once dominated the INS market. The propellant inhaled nasal steroids that were previously available
have been discontinued due to concerns regarding the effects of CFC on the environment. Based on information in the IMS Report
concerning 2005 sales, the two leading products, which are marketed by large pharmaceutical companies, account for over 70% of
total product sales in this market. We do not anticipate competing directly against the two leading companies in this market by
attempting to out-spend or out-promote them in the marketplace. We believe that our market opportunity lies in capturing a small
portion of the market with a new aerosolized hydrofluoroalkane, or HFA, version of an established product, but at a discount to
the current prices of the leading branded products.
 

4
 

 
We expect APC-3000 to be considered a “new”
drug by the FDA, and accordingly we believe that we will be required to submit data for an application for approval to market APC-3000
pursuant to Section 505(b)(2) of the Food Drug and Cosmetics Act, although there are no assurances that this will be the case.
Total time to develop the APC-3000 product, including manufacture of the product, clinical trials and FDA review, is expected to
be approximately 25 months from inception of full product development efforts. We intend to request a meeting with the FDA to discuss
the specific requirements to develop and sell the product in the United States.
 
We have chosen an organization that will
assist us in developing the correct specifications, formulations, and a list of required tests that comply with the FDA regulations
for the product. We intend to develop the APC-3000 product with our manufacturing partner, Beximco. Once developed, we anticipate
that we will transfer the specifications to Beximco for manufacturing.
 
The second product, APC-1000, is an HFA
metered dose inhaled steroid product for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD. We also intend to develop this
product with our manufacturing partner Beximco. The actual date of introduction will depend on a number of factors, including the
availability of adequate funding and other factors described below.
 
Our third product candidate that we intend
to develop with Beximco, APC-2000, is a generic HFA bronchodilator for the treatment of asthma and COPD. We have had discussions
with the FDA regarding regulatory approval requirements. The FDA has communicated to us that this product is subject to review
under the rules governing submission of abbreviated new drug applications, or ANDAs. Once product development is completed, we
anticipate submitting an ANDA application to the FDA relating to this product.
 
We estimate that a total of approximately
$6-$9 million is required to support the development and commercial introduction of APC-3000 and
our two other allergy and respiratory products. Factors that could affect the actual launch date for our allergy and respiratory
product candidates include the outcome of discussions with the FDA concerning the number and kind of clinical trials that the FDA
will require before the FDA will consider regulatory approval of the product, any unexpected difficulties in licensing or sublicensing
intellectual property rights for other components of the product such as the inhaler, any unexpected difficulties in the ability
of our suppliers to timely supply quantities for commercial launch of the product, any unexpected delays or difficulties in assembling
and deploying an adequate sales force to market the product, unexpected events affecting Beximco’s participation in developing
and manufacturing products, and receipt of adequate funding to support product development and sales and marketing efforts.
 
Other Allergy and Respiratory Products
 
On April 23, 2007, Adamis
completed the acquisition of a specialty pharmaceutical drug company named Healthcare Ventures Group, Inc., or HVG. HVG had
previously acquired a group of allergy and respiratory products and certain related assets from a third party company. Net
revenues from sales of our allergy and respiratory products from April 23, 2007, the date on which we acquired Adamis
Laboratories, Inc., through our fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, were approximately $1.6 million. We did not market
these allergy and respiratory products during fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2012, primarily due to funding limitations and the
competitive market for antihistamine/decongestant products and liquid steroids (Prelone). We believe there is limited
potential for these products and we have no plans to market these products for the foreseeable future, due in part to the
widespread substitution of generic products at the dispensing pharmacy level for the conditions indicated for the products,
limited funding, the elimination of our field sales force, and manufacturing and regulatory challenges facing this category
of pharmaceutical products.
 

5
 

 
Manufacturing Agreement with Beximco
 
On December 1, 2010, we announced the
signing of a strategic manufacturing, supply, and product development agreement with Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Beximco is a
leading manufacturer of pharmaceutical formulations and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) in Bangladesh. Beximco has a large
number of products covering broad therapeutic categories, including, but not limited to, asthma and allergy inhalers, antibiotics,
anti-hypertensives, anti-diabetics, and anti-retrovirals. Beximco’s manufacturing site houses a number of self-contained
production units including oral solids, metered dose inhalers, intravenous fluids, liquids, ointments, creams, suppositories, ophthalmic
drops, injectables and nebulizer solutions.
 
Adamis and Beximco intend to introduce a
number of separate drugs into the U.S. over the next years, and we intend to partner with Beximco regarding the nasal steroid and
inhaler products described above. The expected focus of these drugs will be in the areas of allergy and asthma. In addition, the
companies intend to co-develop certain drugs. We will be responsible for regulatory approval and sales in the U.S.
 
Cancer and Vaccine Product Candidates
 
We are focused on the development of therapeutic
vaccine product candidates and prostate cancer drugs for patients with unmet medical needs in the multi-billion dollar global prostate-cancer
market. We initially focused on vaccine technologies only, with initial emphasis on developing a novel avian influenza vaccine.
However, with the entering into during 2010 and 2011 of license agreements relating to the APC-100, APC-200, APC-300 and telomerase
vaccine technologies, we are focusing on both the small molecule cancer therapeutic drugs and on therapeutic cancer vaccine opportunities.
 
In February 2010, we entered into an agreement
with a private company to acquire exclusive license agreements covering three small molecule compounds, named APC-100, APC-200
and APC-300, that we believe are promising drug candidates for the potential treatment of human prostate cancer (PCa). The APC-300
agreement was acquired in February 2010, and the acquisition of the other two agreements was completed in October 2010. The intellectual
property covered by the agreements was licensed from the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, or WARF. In 2006 and 2007, APC-100
and APC-200, respectively, received the National Cancer Institute’s multi-year, multi-million dollar RAPID (Rapid Access
to Preventative Intervention Development) Award. The NCI Division of Cancer Prevention gives this award each year under the RAPID
Program to promising new preventative/ therapeutic anti-cancer drugs. Collectively, more than $18 million has been spent through
government and private foundation grants and private investor funding for the development of these three new small molecule drug
candidates. We submitted an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, to the FDA at the end of February 2011 and supplemented
the IND at the end of April 2011. On August 11, 2011, we announced that we had enrolled the first patient in a Phase 1/2a
prostate cancer clinical study relating to the use of the APC-100 product to treat men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer.
The study began at the University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center and was extended to the Wayne State University Karmanos Cancer
Institute.
 
The Human Prostate and Prostate Cancer;
Disease and Market Background
 
In the discussion below concerning prostate
cancer, all statistics, data and information concerning incidence of disease or other conditions in the general population, market
sizes, annual U.S. sales of products, U.S. prescriptions and rates of prescriptions, and similar statistical or market information
are based on data published by or in the following sources: MedTrack and IMMS data reports, American Cancer Society, or ACS, Statistics
and National Cancer Institute, or NCI, Statistics.
 
The prostate is a walnut-sized gland located
in front of the rectum and underneath the urinary bladder. It is found only in men. The prostate starts to develop before birth
and continues to grow until a man reaches adulthood. This growth is fueled by male hormones, the so-called androgens. The main
androgen produced by men is the hormone testosterone. Testosterone can be converted by the body into dihydrotestosterone, or DHT,
which in turn signals the prostate to grow. The prostate stays at adult size in adult males as long as the male hormone is present
at physiological levels.
 

6
 

 
A prostate cancer develops when cells in
the prostate begin to grow out of control, and a cancerous tumor can form. Several types of cells are found in the prostate, but
over 99% of prostate cancers develop from gland cells within the prostate. The medical term for a cancer that starts in gland cells
is an “adenocarcinoma.” As the tumor grows, it can spread to the interior of the prostate, to tissues near the prostate,
to the sac-like structures attached to the prostate known as the seminal vesicles, and to distant parts of the body, such as the
bones, liver lobes or lungs. Prostate cancer, or PCa, is one of the most invasive malignancies and a leading cause of cancer related
deaths in many countries. According to the American Cancer Society and the National Cancer Institute, prostate cancer is the second-most
common cancer in American men, and the second leading cause of cancer death in American men. The ACS estimates for prostate cancer
in the United States for 2011 were that about 241,000 new cases of prostate cancer would be diagnosed and about 33,700 men would
die of prostate cancer in 2011. The NCI has estimated that approximately 20% of patients present with locally advanced or metastatic
prostate cancer at the time of diagnosis. Metastatic prostate cancer is advanced prostate cancer that has spread beyond the prostate
and surrounding tissues into distant organs and tissues. The majority of men who die from prostate cancer die from the consequences
of metastatic disease. According to the National Cancer Institute, the five-year survival rate of patients with prostate cancer
that has metastasized to distant organs is only about 30%. Metastatic prostate cancer is generally divided into two states: the
androgen hormone-sensitive, androgen-dependent or castrate sensitive PCa state, referred to as CS-PCa; and the castrate-resistant
PCa state, or CR-PCa, also referred to as the androgen hormone-refractory, androgen-independent or the Androgen Deprivation Therapy,
or ADT, resistant state.
 
Testosterone and other male sex hormones,
known collectively as androgens, can fuel the growth of prostate cancer cells. Androgens exert their effects on prostate cancer
cells by binding to and activating the Androgen Receptor, which is expressed in prostate cancer and other cells. When they first
metastasize to distant sites, most prostate cancers depend on androgen hormone for tumor growth. These prostate cancers are CS-PCa
prostate cancers. The CS-PCa tumors treated with ADT are often already inflamed or can also become chronically inflamed and invariably
become CR-PCa tumors.
 
For patients with advanced, metastatic CS-PCa
prostate cancer, the standard of care is treatment with hormonal ablation therapy, also known as ADT. ADT is used to suppress production
or block the action of androgens. Accordingly, the leading therapies currently used for the treatment of prostate cancer, after
it recurs following radiation or surgery, are focused on diminishing the production of androgens, or antagonizing the effects of
androgens by blocking the Androgen Ligand Binding Domain on the Androgen Receptor inside prostate cancer cells with drugs known
as anti-androgens. Thus, these two different effects are achieved through two separate therapeutic approaches. The first approach
is often to reduce the amount of androgens produced in the body, primarily in the testes. This can be achieved by surgical castration
by removal of both testicles, referred to as an orchiectomy, or alternatively through use of one or two different kinds of ADT
drugs, called chemical castration.
 
One chemical castrating therapeutic drug
is known as a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, or LHRH agonist drug. This type of drug is exemplified by compounds such as
Zolodex that lower the native production of testosterone from the adrenal gland. A second chemical castrating therapeutic approach
uses drugs known as anti-androgens, which directly block the interaction of androgens from binding to the ligand binding domain
of the Androgen Receptor, or AR-LBD. For example, Bicalutamide (Casodex®) is an anti-androgen drug that binds to the AR-LBD
and displaces or blocks androgen binding to the AR-LBD and thus inhibits normal AR function. Bicalutamide is now a generic. Additional
generic anti-androgens include Flutamide (also known as Nilutamide). Bicalutamide is still one of the largest selling of the anti-androgen
CS-PCa therapeutic drugs, with AstraZeneca reporting global annual sales of about $550 million in 2011, according to its public
disclosures of sales. Anti-androgens and LHRH agonists often are given in combination therapy, an approach known as a Combined
Androgen Blockade. However, because these ADT therapies operate by reducing the ability of androgen hormone to bind and activate
the AR to fuel the growth of prostate cancer cells, they generally are effective only on prostate cancers that remain hormone-sensitive,
that is, those men with CS-PCa tumors that still depend on androgen and the AR-LBD for PCa cell growth. Adamis, collaborators,
and many others now commonly recognize that androgen deprivation therapy causes prostate cancer cell programmed cell death, referred
to as apoptosis, and can also contribute to pathophysiological chronic inflammation in men with CS-PCa. There is significant published
data supporting the important role of chronic inflammation in the change from CS-PCa to CR-PCa.
 

7
 

 
Most animal and human prostate cancer initially
is hormone-sensitive and thus initially responds to ADT. However, according to a study published in the October 7, 2004 issue
of The New England Journal of Medicine, and other studies, virtually all hormone-sensitive metastatic prostate cancer (CS-PCa)
are commonly believed to undergo changes that convert CS-PCa to the castration-resistant (CR-PCa) state within a median of 18-24
months after initiation of ADT. Once in this ADT resistant CR-PCa state, CR-PCa generally continues to grow even when there is
a significant reduction of testosterone production. The change to the castration-resistant state is generally determined based
on monitoring either rising levels of prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, in prostate patients’ blood serum, or by documented
disease progression as evidenced by radiographic imaging tests (via patient MRI or bone scans) or the CR-PCa patients’ presentation
of significant clinical symptoms, including pain with or without chronic fatigue. Metastatic prostate cancer that has become castration-resistant
most often becomes more highly advanced, resistant to therapy, and extremely aggressive. These patients have a median survival
of often only 10 to 16 months because, at present, there is no successful medium- or long-term chemotherapy or immunotherapy treatment
for advanced metastatic CR-PCa. Treatment of patients with CR-PCa remains a clinical challenge.
 
In summary, the standard treatment for localized
advanced, recurrent, and metastatic prostate cancer is ADT, which blocks the growth promoting effects of androgens and activates
apoptosis. After an initial favorable response, progression to androgen-independence or castration resistance is the usual outcome,
for which there are currently no curative treatment options. Some brief survival extensions can sometimes be achieved using current
Taxol-based chemotherapy protocols, or recently approved therapies such as Provenge and ZYTIGA.
 
We believe that APC-100, -200 and -300 may
offer significant new treatments for prostate cancer and inflammation. In animal studies conducted to date, all three of these
compounds were safe and well tolerated, and are active not only against castrate sensitive, but also against castrate resistant
prostate tumors.
 
Drug Product Candidates in Development
 
APC-100. APC-100 is the most
advanced of the three small molecule anti-inflammatory drug candidates. In animal studies conducted to date, APC-100 demonstrated
potent anti-androgenic and anti-inflammatory activities against prostate tumors growing in animal models and showed a strong safety
profile in preclinical safety studies.
 
To date, APC-100 has demonstrated desirable
pharmacological characteristics as an oral or injectable anti-inflammatory and anti-androgenic drug candidate with multiple mechanisms
of action. APC-100 significantly decreases secretion of human PSA by human prostate cancer cells growing in mice and also significantly
increases the time-to-tumor progression and survival of PCa mice with CS-PCa and CR-PCa tumors. In animal studies conducted to
date, APC-100 was found to be more effective than Casodex and Flutamide, which are leading ADT drugs.
 
Based on studies to date, we believe that
the APC-100 drug candidate may offer important advantages over existing anti-androgen standard of care drugs that are used in hormonal
therapies in prostate cancer patients. APC-100 has the potential to be used for both castrate-sensitive and castrate-resistant
prostate cancer patients. The standard of care for second-line hormonal therapies includes using existing drugs, such as steroids
(hydrocortisone, dexamethasone), hormones (estrogen, aminoglutethimide) and anti-fungal agents (ketoconazole) in “off-label”
drug use settings. Each of these drugs has characteristics limiting its usefulness as a treatment for prostate cancer. We believe
that APC-100 may have potential advantages over such existing treatments, most notably due to its being anti-inflammatory, anti-androgenic
and multi-targeted, as well as safe and well tolerated in animal testing.
 
A variety of serious side effects have been
associated with the use of existing second-line hormonal treatments, which are limiting their uses. To date, however, no serious
side effects appear to be associated with the use of APC-100. Should APC-100 continue to demonstrate a continued lack of serious
side effects, we believe it would be favorably positioned against other therapeutic PCa agents. Finally, agents used as second-line
hormonal PCa agents for castration resistant prostate cancer must be taken multiple times during the day. In pre-clinical
testing to date, APC-100 has shown the potential to be administered once per day as an oral drug. Such a convenient oral dosing
schedule may result in better patient at home compliance, when compared to other agents that are used as second-line hormonal treatments.
 
In 2006, APC-100 was awarded the National
Cancer Institute, or NCI, Rapid Award. The award is given for promising new drugs for the treatment of cancer and resulted in significant
funding for research and development of APC-100. The development of APC-100 has been funded by Michael Milken’s Prostate
Cancer Foundation, the Department of Defense’s Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs’ Prostate Cancer
Research Program, as well as grants and contracts from the U.S. Public Health Service and the NCI.
 

8
 

 
We submitted an Investigational New
Drug application, or IND, to the FDA at the end of February 2011, and supplemented the IND in April 2011, seeking approval to
permit us to commence human clinical trials for the compound in men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer. On
August 11, 2011, we announced that we had enrolled the first patient in a Phase 1/2a prostate cancer clinical study
relating to the use of the APC-100 product to treat men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The study began at the
University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center and has been extended to the Wayne State University Karmanos Cancer Institute.
Both of these institutions are currently named within “The Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Consortium,” which is
made up of a 13 member clinical trial research group sponsored by the Prostate Cancer Foundation and the Department of
Defense that capitalizes on their scientific expertise and institutional resources with the goal of rapidly bringing new
discoveries to prostate cancer patients. In the trial, each patient will be assessed for toxicity, biochemical responses
(PSA), radiographic and clinical responses. We estimate that the Phase 1/2 clinical trial specified in the IND could require
approximately 18 months in total, and that the total cost of the clinical trial could be in the range
of approximately $2.1 million. After completion of the anticipated Phase 1/2a APC-100 trial, we expect that we would meet with
the FDA to review the trial results and determine extension of the Phase 2a to Phase 2b.
 
APC-200. APC-200 is a drug
candidate for both castrate-sensitive and castrate resistant prostate cancer. APC-200 blocks androgen-induced hydrogen peroxide
production and inflammation and inhibits mouse PCa. Whereas acute inflammation is important for host defenses, for example against
acute bacterial and viral infections in the prostate, chronic inflammation can contribute significantly to prostate tumor initiation,
growth, progression and metastic PCa. In animal studies conducted to date, APC-200 was an excellent inhibitor of chronic inflammation,
also completely inhibiting oxidase mediated high rates of hydrogen peroxide production in vivo, and significantly delaying
prostate cancer progression and death in the standard mouse prostate cancer model (TRAMP - transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse
prostate – mouse model). TRAMP mice have spontaneously developing prostate cancer, where all animals usually die from metastatic
PCa at 22 weeks of age. In the TRAMP animal studies conducted to date, APC-200 repeatedly demonstrated a statistically significant
therapeutic efficacy and a strong safety profile with highly desirable pharmacological therapeutic characteristics and with the
capacity to be administered as either an oral or injectable drug.
 
APC-200 is being developed as an oral drug,
specifically in appropriate formulations for patients with PCa for whom ADT is currently not approved or appropriate with standard-of-care
therapeutics. APC-200 may fulfill an unmet medical need for which there is no approved drug on the market, in that it might be
given after surgery or radiation, but before or with ADT, since it has been shown to be a potent anti-inflammatory drug in the
animal studies conducted to date. In pre-clinical studies conducted to date, APC-200 effectively inhibited the androgen-induced
oxidase-mediated increased production of hydrogen peroxide in prostate tissues and inhibited inflammation which has been recognized
to be an important factor in the induction and progression of prostate cancer. In the TRAMP mouse PCa model, APC-200 increased
survival and time to tumor progression, and demonstrated inhibition of PSA secretion by human tumors and low toxicity with no pro-estrogenic
or other negative side-effects. In 2007, APC-200 was awarded the NCI Rapid Award.
 
Pre-clinical safety, pharmacology and toxicology
studies are being conducted. GMP manufacture development of APC-200 for oral administration has been initiated. A clinical protocol
for the use of APC-200 for the treatment of prostate cancer has been completed with the exception of the dosing schedule, which
is dependent on the toxicology data. Toxicology studies and GMP manufacturing have been delayed due to lack of funding, but will
be undertaken and completed once we have adequate funding. After conclusion of the pre-clinical development activities, such as
GMP manufacturing of drug substance and drug product, as well as conclusion of the pre-clinical safety, pharmacology and toxicology
studies, we anticipate filing and opening an Adamis-sponsored IND relating to the clinical investigation of oral APC-200 in PCa
patients with castrate resistant prostate cancer, assuming adequate funding and no unexpected delays.
 
APC-300. APC-300 is a multi-targeted
small molecule therapeutic drug that we believe has the potential to demonstrate anti-inflammatory, pro-apoptotic anti-cancer activities
for prostate cancer patients, including men with advanced metastatic CR-PCa. In pre-clinical in vivo studies conducted to
date, APC-300 repeatedly demonstrated a significant ability to inhibit human tumor growth and kill both castrate-sensitive and
castrate-resistant human prostate cancer tumors. It also materially decreased human tumor volumes and suppressed local metastasis
in human xenograft models, where malignant human prostate or human melanoma tumor tissue was grafted onto athymic immunosuppressed
experimental mice.
 

9
 

 
APC-300 inhibited human androgen receptor
protein production in these studies. It also inhibited PSA secretion by human PCa cells, which is a serum marker for human prostate
cancer. Based on the pre-clinical studies conducted to date, APC-300 clearly targets microtubule assembly and regulation, inhibits
inflammation and is a potent pro-apoptotic therapeutic oral drug with potential for human prostate cancer patients. Based on pre-clinical
studies conducted to date, APC-300 also (i) inhibits prostate growth with simultaneous effects on the level of alpha-tubulin and
beta-tubulin (the microtubule structural proteins), Stathmin (a micotubule regulating protein) and Survivin (a microtubule-regulatory
downstream target/pro-survival protein), (ii) induces Fas receptor-mediated apoptotic signaling, (iii) decreases the level of the
anti-apoptotic protein cFLIP, (iv) decreases transcriptional activation of Survivin and cFLIP, and (v) has a strong safety profile
and desirable pharmacological characteristics with the capacity to be administered as either an oral or injectable drug or as a
nutraceutical. Because of its multiple mechanisms of action, we believe that APC-300 may have potential applications in the treatment
of other tumor types in which microtubule inhibitors have already been shown to be effective, including melanoma, as well as in
prostate cancer. We have not yet developed a clinical protocol and other materials for submission of an IND, due to funding limitations,
and we expect to begin that process once we have adequate funding.
 
Telomerase Vaccine Technologies
 
In April 2011, we acquired exclusive rights
to patented telomerase-based cancer vaccine technology from the Regents of the University of California. The technology was developed
by Maurizio Zanetti, M.D., at the University of California, San Diego, or UCSD. At the same time, Adamis licensed a complementary
technology from the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center. We intend to pursue development of the technology initially for what we
believe may be a novel cell-based vaccine product candidate for prostate cancer, tentatively named TeloB-VAX. The technology is
intended to activate the body’s natural defense machinery to stimulate an immune response against one of nature’s most
common tumor markers, telomerase. The vaccine will utilize the patient’s own B cells as antigen producing and antigen presenting
cells. B cells represent approximately 12% of a person’s circulating blood cells. We believe that if future clinical trials
prove successful, this technology may represent one of the first concrete opportunities to program the immune system to mobilize
killer lymphocytes to combat cancer cells, whether these are adult differentiated cells or progenitor cancer stem cells. Since
telomerase is increased in over 85% of all cancers, a vaccine product could potentially be used to treat multiple cancer types,
such as breast, lung, and colon cancer.
 
Telomerase is an enzyme that adds DNA sequence
repeats (for example, “TTAGGG”) to the 3’ end of DNA strands in the telomere regions of chromosomes at every
cell division. Telomerase confers the immortality trait that converts normal cells into cancer cells and prevents the erosion of
telomeres and end-to-end chromosomal fusion. As such, telomerase is over-expressed in the vast majority of differentiated cancer
cell types. Importantly, telomerase is also necessary for self-renewal of cancer stem cells and cancer cell progenitors. Based
on the foregoing, telomerase reverse transcriptase, or TERT, is an antigen or tumor marker expressed in both differentiated and
progenitor cancer cells making vaccination against TERT a potentially effective measure to induce an immune response against cancer
cells at both stages of differentiation.
 
The vaccine product candidate is composed
of the patient’s own circulating B lymphocytes harboring a unique patented engineered plasmid DNA. The transfection (plasmid
DNA entering the B cell) procedure is “spontaneous,” requiring no facilitating molecules or devices. Based on tests
conducted to date, after approximately 60 minutes of incubation with the plasmid, the cells can be re-infused back into the patient.
In studies conducted to date, the TeloB-VAX prostate cancer vaccine candidate induced a potent cellular immune response against
the common cancer marker, TERT.
 
In a Phase 1 study completed at UCSD in
castrate resistant prostate cancer patients, the vaccine product candidate was safe, non-toxic and immunogenic. Either a single
injection or two injections of TeloB-VAX, spaced one month apart, was shown to induce a specific CD8 T cell response. More important,
the T cells induced post-vaccination were shown to specifically kill prostate cancer cells.
 

10
 

 
We believe that if future trials are successful
and a vaccine product is developed, such a vaccine product may have a number of competitively advantageous features, including:
prolonged antigen presentation by B cells (five days); a unique patented platform technology using a cancer antigen marker that
is increased in approximately 85% of all tumors; induces an immune response after a single injection; no need for complicated culture
procedures; much fewer steps; and potentially lower cost than other competitive products.
 
We will initially focus development of the
telomerase technology for prostate cancer. However, if the vaccine technology is successful, we intend to develop the technology
for other indications such as breast, lung and colon cancer.
 
Other Vaccine Technologies
 
In addition, we have licensed patented vaccine
technology that we believe has the potential to provide protection against a number of different viral infectious agents. This
novel vaccination strategy, which employs DNA plasmids, appears, based on preclinical studies conducted to date, to have the ability
to “train” a person’s immune system to recognize and mount a defense against particular aspects of a virus’
structure. If successful, we believe this technology will give physicians a new tool in generating immunity against a number of
viral infections that have been difficult to target in the past.
 
The first target indication for this technology
has yet to be determined, but will be based on market, technology, and patent position considerations. Disease targets might include
therapeutic vaccines for Influenza, Hepatitis B and C, which are known to be involved in hepatocellular carcinomas, Human Papillomavirus,
which is known to be involved in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas, and prostate cancer.
 
The technology that provides the basis of
our research and development in this area was developed by Dr. Maurizio Zanetti, M.D., a professor at the Department of Medicine
at UCSC. Dr. Zanetti has developed and patented a method of DNA vaccination by somatic transgene immunization, or STI. We have
entered into a worldwide exclusive license with Dr. Zanetti, through a company of which he is the sole owner, Nevagen, LLC, to
utilize the technology within the field of viral infectious agents. We believe that the technology may have broad applications
and intend to target viral disease indications for its initial proof of concept.
 
STI, also sometimes called TLI, has already
been tested in Phase I studies in humans for other vaccine applications. An immune response was elicited in the study, and the
results suggested that the procedure was safe. Testing, for instance for influenza, is currently at the preclinical stage. If successful,
STI may provide a vaccine for a wide variety of forms of influenza, including avian flu, although there are no guarantees that
any of the trials will be successful or that a commercial product will be developed or marketed.
 
Many current vaccines act by giving the
immune system a preview of certain protein antigens expected to be found on the target structure; pathogens, such as influenza,
however, demonstrate the limitations of this approach: the influenza virus changes its coat, often by recombination with swine
or human viruses or other variation processes approximately every flu season. The changes make each year’s new version of
the flu unrecognizable to the immune system, and therefore immunity to influenza viral variants must be usually reestablished with
a new vaccine every fall. The following summarizes the method proposed by us to develop long lasting and cross-reactive immunity
against, for example, influenza, but also against other therapeutic vaccine targets using STI:
 


 
●
Draw a small amount of blood from patient

 
●
Separate the white blood cells

 
●
Add plasmid (DNA) to the white blood cells

 
●
Incubate overnight to allow the plasmid to enter the white blood cells (ex vivo transgenesis)

 
●
Inject white blood cells back to the individual to induce immunity to the target of choice, such as influenza, hepatitis, HPV, and prostate cancer).

 

11
 

 
Experiments conducted by third parties for
us utilizing the STI technology in mice have shown that T-cell immunity can be induced in vivo by a single intravenous inoculation
of naïve B lymphocytes genetically programmed by ex vivo transgenesis. This is accomplished by administering a plasmid
DNA under control of a B cell specific promoter. The process is entirely spontaneous and mimics the process of viral infection,
which is intracellular replication. Results show the induction of systemic effector CD4 and CD8 T-cell responses within 14 days
after administration of the transgenic B cells. Durable immunologic memory is also induced. It has been demonstrated that a single
injection of 5 x 103 transgenic B lymphocyte induces complete protection from a lethal virus challenge. The following outlines
the protocol used in the mouse trial:
 


 
●
A small amount of blood was drawn from mice

 
●
B cells were separated from the blood and transfected with DNA from flu virus

 
●
Transfected lymphocytes, or priming B cells, were re-infused into the mice

 
●
A lethal challenge of virus was administered via aerosol 14-21 days after re-infusion

 
●
For controls, mice were injected with priming B cells transfected with DNA not specific for the flu

 
A single injection of transgenic B lymphocytes
in this trial was sufficient to generate specific CD8 T-cell memory responses, which protected mice from a lethal viral challenge.
The immune response that was induced was a reaction against the common components of the influenza virus, and was cross-reactive,
meaning that it reacted against various types of flu virus (avian or any other). Thus, we believe this type of vaccine may be utilized
to protect individuals from various strains of influenza that may occur.
 
We currently intend to focus initially on
the development of one or more of the other recently licensed prostate cancer product candidates and technologies, and as a result
the timing of development of this viral vaccine technology is subject to uncertainty.
 
Savvy/C31G
 
On December 7, 2010, we announced the
successful completion of a Phase 3 contraceptive trial of ourcontraceptive gel product candidate named Savvy (C31G). The study
met its primary endpoint and was conducted by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
(NICHD), National Institutes of Health (NIH), in the Contraceptive Clinical Trials Network at 14 sites in the United States. The
results of the NICHD study were published in December 2010 in Obstetrics and Gynecology. The Phase 3 trial was a randomized,
double-masked, controlled comparator study to assess whether a gel containing the spermicide C31G was non-inferior to Conceptrol®,
a commercially available product containing nonoxynol-9 (N-9). The clinical investigators found that C31G was not inferior in contraceptive
efficacy to the comparator drug Conceptrol®. Thus, the study met its primary objective. Moreover, the gel was well-tolerated
and had a high degree of acceptability in women who completed the study. No drug-related serious adverse events were observed with
C31G. Drug-related side effects of C31G were generally mild and did not lead to discontinuation.
 
Currently, to our knowledge all spermicides
commercially available in the U.S. contain the active ingredient N-9 in a carrier such as a gel, film, cream, foam, suppository,
or tablet. N-9 has been reported in some studies to cause irritant and allergic reactions in some users. Although the Conceptrol®
product was effective and well-tolerated in the NICHD comparative trial, there were a significantly lower number of drug-related
events with the C31G gel and fewer women discontinued the study due to drug-related side effects. C31G does not contain nonoxynol-9
and, if commercialized, may offer an alternative for women who seek a non-hormonal method of contraception.
 
C31G previously was the subject of two Phase
3 clinical trials conducted in Africa, supported by Family Health International and the United States Agency for International
Development, to determine whether C31G was safe and effective for reducing women’s risk of acquiring HIV infection. The external
independent Data Monitoring Committee reviewing those trials concluded in 2005 and 2006 that, while there were no safety concerns
based on the results of the studies to date, continuing the trials would not allow the effect of C31G on HIV acquisition to be
determined because of a lower than expected rate of HIV seroconversion in the trials. The committee determined that continuation
of the trials was not warranted due to a lack of statistical significance between C31G gel and the vehicle control in the interim
data. Accordingly, the trials were discontinued.
 

12
 

 
We intend to meet with the FDA to discuss
the regulatory pathways for submitting an NDA for marketing approval, including whether any additional trials will be required
before an NDA is submitted. In considering commercialization alternatives, we will likely seek to enter into an out-licensing or
similar transaction with organizations that have a focus or business unit in the area of contraception. The C31G product candidate
is held by our Biosyn, Inc. subsidiary and was acquired in 2004 with Cellegy’s acquisition of Biosyn. Provisions in the acquisition
agreement between Biosyn and Cellegy, and in certain of the funding agreements and other agreements relating to the C31G product,
provide for payments to the former Biosyn shareholders upon marketing approval by the FDA (or, in certain circumstances, certain
foreign regulatory authorities) of C31G for one or more indications and payments to certain other third parties in the event of
sales or other revenues relating to C31G or certain other events. In addition, sale or out-licensing of the C31G product candidate
may require the consent of one or more such third parties. As a result, commercialization of the product may require renegotiation
of the provisions relating to the former Biosyn shareholders and such third parties. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that
we will be able to successfully conclude a transaction involving C31G or concerning the amounts that we might receive from any
such transaction.
 
License Agreements
 
License Agreements Relating to APC-100,
APC-200 and APC-300
 
On February 24, 2010, we entered into
an Assignment, Assumption and Stock Acquisition Agreement with Colby Pharmaceutical Company, a privately held company, relating
to the APC-100, APC-200 and APC-300 product candidates. Under the agreement as amended, Colby assigned to us the license agreement
relating to the APC-300 compound in consideration of the issuance to Colby of 800,000 shares of our common stock, and agreed that
the agreements relating to the APC-100 and APC-200 would be assigned upon satisfaction of certain conditions, in exchange for additional
shares. Colby licensed the patents, patent applications and related intellectual property relating to the compounds pursuant to
license agreements with the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, or WARF, the licensor. In October 2010, Adamis and Colby amended
the agreement. Under the amendment, Colby assigned and transferred to us the license agreements relating to APC-100 and APC-200
in consideration for the issuance to Colby of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock. Additionally, we issued 1,250,000 shares to
each of two principals of Colby, for consulting services in connection with the intellectual property covered by the license agreements.
 
The APC-100 and APC-200 license agreements
are dated January 26, 2007. The APC-300 license agreement is dated January 2, 2008. Under each separate agreement, WARF
grants to us, as the licensee, an exclusive license, with rights of sublicense, under the patents and patent applications identified
in the agreement, for the fields of human nutraceuticals, preventatives, therapeutics and diagnostics and for all territories worldwide
that are covered by any of the licensed patents.
 
The license agreements include milestones
that we, as the licensee, agree to meet by certain dates, relating to obtaining cumulative funding by certain dates, the filing
of an IND relating to a covered product, enrollment of a first patient under a Phase II clinical trial by certain dates, and filing
of an NDA with the FDA relating to a covered product by certain dates. WARF has the right to terminate the license agreement with
advance notice if we fail to meet any of the funding milestones or commercialization milestones. Under each agreement, we agree
to pay WARF a milestone payment of $25,000 upon the filing of the first IND or comparable regulatory filing for a covered product,
and additional payments upon the achievement of the additional milestones, aggregating approximately $600,000.
 
Under all of the agreements, we agree to
pay product royalties to WARF based on net sales of covered products, at a rate of 5% of net sales. The agreements include customary
stacking provisions providing for a reduction in royalties if we become obligated to pay royalties to other third parties on sales
of covered products, but in all events the rate will be not less than 2.5% of net sales. In addition, if we receive any fees or
other payments in consideration for any rights granted under a sublicense, and the fees or payments are not based directly on the
amount or value of products sold by the sublicensee or provided as reimbursement for research and development costs incurred by
us, then we are obligated to pay to WARF a percentage of such payments, ranging from 10% to 40% depending on what the stage of
regulatory approval and clinical trial development at the time the payments are received.
 

13
 

 
Each agreement provides that we will reimburse
WARF for legal fees and other costs incurred in filing, prosecuting and maintaining the licensed patents during the term of the
agreement. These amounts will accrue for a period of four years after the date of the agreement, after which time the accrued amounts
will be paid in four annual installments.
 
The term of each agreement continues until
the date that none of the licensed patents under the agreement remains an enforceable patent. We may terminate the agreement at
any time with 90 days prior notice to WARF. WARF may terminate the agreement if the date of first commercial sale of a covered
product does not occur by December 31, 2020 under the APC-100 and APC-200 agreements and December 31, 2021 under the
APC-300 agreement. WARF may also terminate the agreement following our failure to meet a funding or commercialization milestone,
or if we fail to pay amounts when due or deliver a development report or commits a material breach of the agreement and fail to
cure the default within 90 days.
 
Telomerase Vaccine Technology
 
Our telomerase vaccine technology was licensed
pursuant to exclusive license agreements entered into in April 2011 with the Regents of the University of California and the Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute, Inc. Pursuant to the agreement with the University of California, we acquired a license to certain patents and
related intellectual property rights relating to a telomerase-based cancer vaccine technology. We licensed a complementary patent
based on technology from the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Inc.
 
Under the terms of the license agreement,
we licensed the patents and related intellectual property for a field that includes therapeutic and preventive cancer vaccines
in humans, and for a territory that includes the United States. The term of the license extends through the expiration date of
the longest-lived patent rights covered by the agreement.
 
Under the agreement, we paid to the universities
a small upfront license issue fee in connection with the execution of the license agreement. We will pay the universities a small
annual maintenance fee on the first three anniversaries of the date of the agreement, increasing in an immaterial amount thereafter,
until we or a permitted sublicensee is commercially selling a licensed product.
 
For the first indication of a licensed
product, we will make payments upon reaching specified milestones in clinical development and obtaining U.S. regulatory
approval for a licensed product, potentially aggregating $1.87 million if all milestone payments are made, including obtaining
U.S. regulatory approval for a licensed product. Similar payments apply to the second indication of a licensed product.
 
The agreement also provides that we will
pay the universities royalties, in the low single digits, payable on net sales of licensed products. The agreement includes customary
provisions for adjusting the royalty rate in the case of a combination product that includes a licensed product and other products
or product components. The agreement includes customary royalty stacking provisions providing for a reduction in the royalty rate
if we are required to pay royalties to other third parties to acquire patent rights necessary to make, use or sell licensed products,
up to one-half of the amounts otherwise due to the universities.
 
If we enter into sublicenses of the licensed
technology, then a portion of the sublicense fees received by us from the sublicensee is payable to the universities, with the
exact percentage depending on the time during the product development, clinical trials and regulatory approval process that the
sublicense is entered into. If we receive product royalty payments from sublicensees, we are obligated to pay a percentage of those
fees to the universities, with the exact percentage depending on the status of product development and commercialization. Following
commercial sales of a licensed product, the agreement provides for minimum annual royalties to the universities, with an increased
amount starting with the third full year of sales.
 
We are responsible for payment of patent
costs relating to the licensed patents, including patent costs previously incurred by the universities. In the agreement, we agree
to diligently proceed with the development, manufacture and sale of licensed products, and to satisfy certain development and regulatory
submission milestones by certain dates. Failure to satisfy these obligations permits the universities to either terminate the license
agreement or convert the license to a non-exclusive license. The universities may terminate the agreement if we fail to perform
or violate any term of the agreement and do not cure the default within 60 days of notice. We may terminate the agreement upon
90 days notice to the universities.
 

14
 

 
License Agreement Relating to Vaccine
Technologies
 
On July 28, 2006, we entered into a
worldwide exclusive license agreement with Dr. Zanetti, through a company of which he is the sole owner, Nevagen, to utilize technology
held by Nevagen within the field of viral infectious agents. The intellectual property, or IP, licensed by Adamis includes the
use of the technology known as “Transgenic Lymphocyte Technology,” or TLI, covered by certain U.S. and foreign patents
and patent applications. The U.S. patent was issued on October 9, 2007 and will expire on April 27, 2019, 20 years from
the filing date of the earliest U.S. non-provisional application upon which the patent claims priority. The field for this license
is the prevention and treatment and detection of viral infectious diseases. The license will terminate with the expiration of the
U.S. patent for the IP.
 
As part of the initial license fee we granted
Dr. Zanetti the right to purchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $0.001 per share, and he subsequently exercised
that right. In addition, we paid Nevagen an initial license fee of $55,000. For the first product, we will make payments upon reaching
specified milestones in clinical development and submission of an application regulatory approval, potentially aggregating $900,000
if all milestone payments are made. As of the date of this Annual Report, no milestones have been achieved and no milestone payments
have been made. The agreement also provides that we will pay Nevagen royalties, in the low single digits, payable on net sales
received by us of products covered by the IP. If additional technologies are required to be licensed to produce a functional product,
the royalty rate will be reduced by the amount of the royalty paid to the other licensor, but not more than one-half the specified
royalty rate. Royalties and incremental payments with respect to influenza will continue until reaching a cumulative total of $10
million.
 
Adamis and Nevagen have the right to sublicense
with written permission of the other party. In the event that Nevagen sublicenses or sells the improved technology to a third party,
then a portion of the total payments, to be decided by mutual agreement, will be due to us. If we sublicense the IP for use in
influenza to a third party, Nevagen will be paid a fixed percentage of all license fees, royalties, and milestone payments, in
addition to royalties due and payable based on net sales.
 
If the IP is sublicensed by us to another
company for any indication in the field covered by the license agreement other than with respect to influenza, Nevagen will be
paid a portion of all license fees, royalties and milestone payments, with the percentage declining over time based on the year
in which the sublicense is granted. Certain incremental non-flu virus related sublicensing payments described in the license agreement
are specifically excluded from the royalty cap.
 
All improvements of the IP conceived of,
or reduced to practice by us, or made jointly by us and Nevagen, will be owned solely by us. We granted Nevagen a royalty-free
nonexclusive license to use any improvements made on the existing technology for research purposes only, but not for any commercial
purposes of any kind. We have agreed to grant to Nevagen a royalty-free license for any improvement needed for the commercialization
of the IP for Nevagen’s use outside the field licensed to us. If Nevagen sublicenses or sells the improved technology to
a third party, then a portion of the total payments, to be decided by mutual agreement, will be due to us. We also have the right
of first offer to license certain related technologies from Nevagen, if and when it becomes available.
 
We have the right to terminate the agreement
if it is determined that no viable product can come from the licensed technology. Upon such termination, we would be required to
transfer and assign to Nevagen all filings, rights and other information in our control. We would retain the same royalty rights
for license, or sublicense, agreements if the technology is later developed into a product. Either party may terminate the license
agreement in the event of a material breach of the agreement by the other party that has not been cured or corrected within 90
days of notice of the breach.
 

15
 

 
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials; Manufacturing
 
We purchase, in the ordinary course of
business, necessary raw materials, components and supplies essential to our operations from several suppliers in the U.S. and
overseas. We have entered into a contract with a manufacturing organization for the development and production of our PFS Syringe
product. We intend to monitor these arrangements and to seek to provide a continued supply of both raw materials and components.
 
We do not currently have in-house manufacturing
capabilities. We rely on third party contract manufacturers to make the material used to support the development of our product
candidates. We purchase the material used in our clinical trial activities from various companies and suppliers.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
During fiscal 2011, we materially reduced
our sales force in light of the absence of marketing efforts relating to our allergy and respiratory products, and we do not currently
have any sales force, as we did not market allergy, respiratory or other products during fiscal 2012. If the PFS Syringe product
is approved for marketing and is commercially launched, we intend either to hire and train sales representatives or else retain
a third party sales force. Additional sales representatives may be retained if an aerosolized inhaled nasal steroid product is
developed and launched.
 
Governmental Regulation
 
Governmental authorities in the United States
and other countries extensively regulate the preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping,
advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution, among other things, of pharmaceutical and biologic products. In the
United States, the FDA subjects pharmaceutical and biologic products to rigorous review under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal statutes and regulations.
 
Many of the products we are currently developing
must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed.
This process makes it longer, more difficult and more costly to bring our potential products to market, and we cannot guarantee
that any of our potential products will be approved. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain
and lengthy. If we or our collaboration partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, violations could result
in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating
restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution.
 
Withdrawal or rejection of FDA or other
government entity approval of our potential products may occur for several reasons including, among others, lack of efficacy during
clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between
early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical
trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the United States and abroad.
 
The process of obtaining FDA and other required
regulatory approvals is expensive. The time required for FDA and other approvals is uncertain and may require a number of years,
depending on the complexity or novelty of the product. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals for
many of our products under development is further complicated because some of these products use non-traditional or novel materials
in non-traditional or novel ways, and the FDA has not established guidelines, or has provided only limited guidance, concerning
the clinical trials required to support approval of such products.
 
Any regulatory approval to market a product
may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. These limitations may restrict the size
of the market for the product and affect reimbursement by third-party payers. In addition, regulatory agencies may not grant approvals
on a timely basis or may revoke or significantly modify previously granted approvals.
 
We, or our collaborative partners, are subject
to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the manufacturing and marketing of our potential future products outside
of the United States. The approval procedure varies among countries, additional testing may be required in some jurisdictions,
and the time required to obtain foreign approvals often differs from that required to obtain FDA approvals. Moreover, approval
by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and vice versa.
 

16
 

 
Even if our products are approved by regulatory
authorities, if we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if there are unanticipated problems with the products,
these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted,
the approval may be subject to requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy
of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with the products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse
events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on
such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension
of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.
 
As a result of these factors, we may not
successfully begin or complete clinical trials in the time periods estimated, if at all. Moreover, if we incur costs and delays
in development programs or fails to successfully develop and commercialize products based upon our technologies, we may not become
profitable, and its stock price could decline.
 
FDA Approval Process
 
General
 
In the United States, the FDA regulates
drug products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, and its implementing regulations, and regulates biological
drug products under both the Public Health Service Act, or PHS Act, and its implementing regulations, as well as the FFDCA. Our
product candidates include both biological drug products and drug products. The process required by the FDA before our drug and
biological drug product candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:
 


 
●
completion of extensive preclinical laboratory tests, preclinical animal studies and formulation studies all performed in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Laboratory Practice, or cGLP, regulations;

 
●
submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin;

 
●
performance of adequate and well controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product candidate for each proposed indication;

 
●
submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA, for drug products, or a Biologic License Application, or BLA, for biological drug products;

 
●
satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP regulations; and

 
●
FDA review and approval of the NDA or BLA prior to any commercial marketing, sale or shipment of the drug or biological drug.

 
Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation
of product chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as studies to evaluate toxicity in animals. The results of preclinical
tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted as part of an IND to the FDA. The IND becomes
effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the
conduct of the clinical trial, including concerns that human research subjects will be exposed to unreasonable health risks. In
such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. An independent
institutional review board, or IRB, for each medical center proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the
plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that center and it must monitor the study until completed. Clinical testing
also must satisfy extensive good clinical practices, or GCPs, regulations and regulations for informed consent.
 

17
 

 
Clinical Trials
 
A company typically conducts human clinical
trials in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. Phase 1 trials consist of testing of the product in a small number
of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more doses and, for vaccine products, immunogenicity. Phase 1
trials in cancer are often conducted with patients who are not healthy and who have end-stage or metastatic cancer. Phase 2 trials,
in addition to safety, evaluate the efficacy of the product in a patient population somewhat larger than Phase 1 trials and the
dose tolerance and optimal dosage. In some cases, a sponsor may decide to run what is referred to as a “Phase 2b” evaluation,
which is a second, confirmatory Phase 2 clinical trial. Phase 3 trials typically involve additional testing for safety and clinical
efficacy in an expanded population at geographically dispersed test sites. A company must submit to the FDA a clinical plan, or
“protocol,” which must also be approved by the IRBs at the institutions participating in the trials, prior to commencement
of each clinical trial. The trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s good clinical practices. The FDA may order
the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time. In some cases, the FDA may conditionally approve an
NDA or BLA for a product candidate based on the sponsor’s agreement to conduct additional clinical trials to further assess
the drug’s safety and effectiveness after NDA or BLA approval. Such post-approval trials are typically referred to as Phase
4 studies.
 
To obtain marketing authorization, a company
must submit to the FDA the results of the preclinical and clinical testing, together with, and among other things, detailed information
on the manufacture and composition of the product, in the form of a new drug application, or NDA, or, in the case of a biologic,
a biologics license application, or BLA. After completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA or BLA is prepared and submitted
to the FDA. FDA approval of the NDA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. The NDA and BLA
must include the results of all preclinical, clinical and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product’s
pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture and controls. The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA or BLA is substantial, and there
can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs
and BLAs are additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and the manufacturer and/or sponsor under an approved
new drug application is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees. These fees are typically increased annually.
 
The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of
an NDA or BLA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency’s threshold determination
that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth
review. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of new drug applications. Most such applications for non-priority
drug products are reviewed within ten months. The review process may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider
certain information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. The FDA may also refer applications
for novel drug products or drug products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically
a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should
be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully
when making decisions. The FDA may deny approval of an NDA or BLA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, or it
may require additional information including clinical or CMC data. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide
that the NDA or BLA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA
may interpret data differently than we or our collaborators interpret data. Once issued, the FDA may withdraw product approval
if ongoing regulatory requirements are not met or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market.
 
Before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA
will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with Good Clinical Practices, or GCP. Additionally, the
FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless
compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, is satisfactory and the NDA or BLA contains data that provides substantial
evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication studied. Failure to comply with GMP or other applicable regulatory
requirements may result in withdrawal of marketing approval, criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products,
warning letters, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of clinical trials, FDA refusal to review pending marketing
approval applications or supplements to approved applications, or injunctions, as well as other legal or regulatory action against
us or our corporate partners.
 

18
 

 
After the FDA evaluates the NDA or BLA and
the manufacturing facilities, it issues an approval letter, an approvable letter or a not-approvable letter. Both approvable and
not-approvable letters generally outline the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information
in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA’s satisfaction
in a resubmission of the NDA or BLA, the FDA will issue an approval letter.
 
An approval letter authorizes commercial
marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA or BLA approval, the
FDA may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug’s safety or efficacy and may impose
other conditions, including labeling or distribution restrictions or other risk-management mechanisms which can materially affect
the potential market and profitability of the drug. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory
standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing.
 
Biosimilars
 
The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation
Act, or BPCIA, was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides
for an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products that demonstrate biosimilarity to a previously-approved biological
product. The BPCIA provides 12 years of exclusivity for innovator biological products.
 
Allergy and Respiratory Products
 
Several of our allergy and respiratory products
that we previously marketed before 2011, including AeroHist Caplets, AeroHist Plus Caplets, AeroKid Oral Liquid and AeroOtic HC
Ear Drops, were not the subject of a new drug application or ANDA, and have not been specifically approved by the FDA for marketing
by us. We did not market these products during fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2012. These products were marketed for many years and, we
believe, are similarly situated to products marketed by many companies that are marketed without an approved new drug application
or abbreviated new drug application. The products are drug listed with the FDA in the National Drug Code Directory, but such listing
does not constitute FDA approval of the products. In June 2006, the FDA issued a Compliance Policy Guide for Marketed Unapproved
Drugs, which addressed some of the considerations utilized by the FDA in exercising its discretion with respect to products marketed
without FDA approval. The guide does not establish legally enforceable responsibilities on the FDA and generally only represents
the agency’s current thinking on a topic. The guide emphasizes that any product that is being marketed without required FDA
approvals is subject to FDA enforcement action at any time. If the FDA were to issue a Federal Register Notice outlining revised
conditions for marketing, which could include calling for the submission of an application for products such as our cough/cold
products, then if we desired to market any such products, we would take appropriate action so as to be in compliance with any such
policies. The FDA might also require clinical trials in support of any such applications, and we would need to evaluate our alternatives
in light of the costs required to conduct such trials, which could be substantial, compared to the economic benefit to us from
such products. In addition, independently of such actions, at any time the FDA could also exercise its discretion to proceed against
us and require immediate withdrawal of such products, if we decided to commence marketing them, from the market, or prohibit us
from marketing such products without first conducting required trials and obtaining approvals, or impose other penalties on us.
As described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in 2010 the FDA issued a warning letter indicating that we should not market the PFS
Syringe product without FDA marketing approval and that the product may be sold only after an application has been submitted to
the FDA and approved.
 
Some of our unapproved allergy and respiratory
products include extended release formulations, which may subject us to a higher risk of FDA enforcement action should we decide
to commence marketing them. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.
 
The Prelone product is the subject of an
ANDA approval from the FDA. As we believe is common with many drug products, the Prelone product has been manufactured by a third
party manufacturer which holds the ANDA approval relating to the product. We own the trademark and intellectual property rights
relating to the product and distributes the product pursuant to those rights.
 

19
 

 
Abbreviated New Drug Applications
 
In seeking approval for a drug through an
NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant’s product. Upon approval
of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products
with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited
by potential competitors in support of approval of an ANDA. An ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same
active ingredients in the same strengths and dosage form as the listed drug and has been shown through bioequivalence testing to
be therapeutically equivalent to the listed drug. ANDA applicants are not required to conduct or submit results of pre-clinical
or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product, other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing.
Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as “generic equivalents” to the listed drug, and can often be substituted
by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug.
 
The ANDA applicant is required to certify
to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA’s Orange Book. Specifically, the applicant must
certify that: (i) the required patent information has not been filed; (ii) the listed patent has expired; (iii) the listed patent
has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (iv) the listed patent
is invalid or will not be infringed by the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved
product’s listed patents or that such patents are invalid is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not
challenge the listed patents, the ANDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product
have expired.
 
If the ANDA applicant has provided a Paragraph
IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders
once the ANDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit
in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the
receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of 30 months,
expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant.
 
The ANDA application also will not be approved
until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book
for the referenced product has expired. Federal law provides a period of five years following approval of a drug containing no
previously approved active ingredients, during which ANDAs for generic versions of those drugs cannot be submitted unless the submission
contains a Paragraph IV challenge to a listed patent, in which case the submission may be made four years following the original
product approval. Federal law provides for a period of three years of exclusivity following approval of a listed drug that contains
previously approved active ingredients, but is approved in a new dosage form, route of administration or combination, or for a
new use, the approval of which was required to be supported by new clinical trials conducted by or for the sponsor, during which
FDA cannot grant effective approval of an ANDA based on that listed drug.
 
Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications
 
Most drug products obtain FDA marketing
approval pursuant to an NDA or an ANDA. A third alternative is a special type of NDA, commonly referred to as a Section 505(b)(2)
NDA, which enables the applicant to rely, in part, on the FDA’s findings of safety and efficacy of an existing product, or
published literature, in support of its application. Section 505(b)(2) NDAs often provide an alternate path to FDA approval for
new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where
at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the
applicant has not obtained a right of reference. The applicant may rely upon the FDA’s findings with respect to certain pre-clinical
or clinical studies conducted for an approved product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements
to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all or some of the label
indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the Section 505(b)(2)
applicant.
 

20
 

 
To the extent that the Section 505(b)(2)
applicant is relying on studies conducted for an already approved product, the applicant is subject to existing exclusivity for
the reference product and is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the Orange
Book to the same extent that an ANDA applicant would. Thus approval of a Section 505(b)(2) NDA can be stalled until all the listed
patents claiming the referenced product have expired, until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval
of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired, and, in the case of a Paragraph IV
certification and subsequent patent infringement suit, until the earlier of 30 months, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision
in the infringement case that is favorable to the Section 505(b)(2) applicant.
 
Fast Track Designation/Priority Review
 
Congress enacted the Food and Drug Administration
Modernization Act of 1997, or the Modernization Act, in part to ensure the availability of safe and effective drugs, biologics
and medical devices by expediting the development and review for certain new products. The Modernization Act establishes a statutory
program for the review of Fast Track products, including biologics. A Fast Track product is defined as a new drug or biologic intended
for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition that demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for
this condition. Under the Fast Track program, the sponsor of a new drug or biologic may request that the FDA designate the drug
or biologic as a Fast Track product at any time during the development of the product, prior to a new drug application submission.
If appropriate, we intend to seek fast track designation, accelerated approval or priority review for our biological drug candidates.
 
Post-Marketing Obligations
 
The Food and Drug Administration Amendments
Act of 2007 expanded FDA authority over drug products after approval. All approved drug products are subject to continuing regulation
by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the product, sampling and distribution
requirements, notifying the FDA and gaining its approval of certain manufacturing or labeling changes, complying with certain electronic
records and signature requirements, submitting periodic reports to the FDA, maintaining and providing updated safety and efficacy
information to the FDA, and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and
regulatory requirements can subject a manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as warning letters, suspension
of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctive action, criminal prosecution, or civil penalties.
 
The FDA may require post-marketing studies
or clinical trials, referred as Phase 4 trials, to develop additional information regarding the safety of a product. These studies
or trials may involve continued testing of a product and development of data, including clinical data, about the product’s
effects in various populations and any side effects associated with long-term use. The FDA may require post-marketing studies or
trials to investigate known serious risks or signals of serious risks or identify unexpected serious risks and may require periodic
status reports if new safety information develops. Failure to conduct these studies in a timely manner may result in substantial
civil fines.
 
Drug and biologics manufacturers and their
subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and to list their products
with the FDA. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities in the United States and abroad in order to assure compliance
with the applicable current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations and other requirements. Facilities also are subject
to inspections by other federal, foreign, state or local agencies. In complying with the cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue
to expend time, money and effort in record-keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications
and other post-marketing requirements. We must ensure that any third-party manufacturers continue to expend time, money and effort
in the areas of production, quality control, record keeping and reporting to ensure full compliance with those requirements. Failure
to comply with these requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing
or recall or seizure of product.
 

21
 

 
Also, newly discovered or developed safety
or efficacy data may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications,
additional preclinical or clinical studies, or even in some instances, revocation or withdrawal of the approval. Violations of
regulatory requirements at any stage, including after approval, may result in various adverse consequences, including the FDA’s
withdrawal of an approved product from the market, other voluntary or FDA-initiated action that could delay or restrict further
marketing, and the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties against the manufacturer and BLA holder. In addition, later
discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or BLA holder, including withdrawal
of the product from the market. Furthermore, new government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent regulatory
approval of our products under development, or affect the conditions under which approved products are marketed.
 
The distribution of prescription pharmaceutical
products is also subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which regulates the distribution of drugs and drug samples
at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the
PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability
in distribution.
 
Anti-Kickback, False Claims and Other
Laws
 
In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing
of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices
in the pharmaceutical industry. These laws include anti-kickback statutes, false claims statutes and the federal Physician Payment
Sunshine Act. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering,
paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase,
lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs.
This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers,
purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal
fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of
statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions,
the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases
or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor.
 
Federal false claims laws prohibit any person
from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making,
or causing to be made, a false or fraudulent claim for payment, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false record or statement
material to a false or fraudulent claim. Several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these
laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn were used by the government to set Medicare
and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers
would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also
implicate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law
and false claims laws, which apply to items and services, reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs. A number of states
have anti-kickback laws that apply regardless of the payor.
 
In addition, the federal Physician Payment
Sunshine Act, when implemented, will require the reporting by drug manufacturers of “payments or transfer of value”
made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals, with limited exceptions. Failure to comply with the reporting obligations
may result in civil monetary penalties.
 
Approval Outside the United States
 
In order to market any product outside of
the United States, we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy
and governing, among other things, clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. Approval procedures vary
among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain
approval in other countries might differ from and be longer or shorter than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval
in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country
may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. In the European Union, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and
approval processes are similar, in principle, to those in the United States. To date, we have not initiated any discussions with
the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, or any other foreign regulatory authorities with respect to seeking regulatory approval
for any indication in Europe or in any other country outside the United States.
 

22
 

 
Other Government Regulation
 
In addition to regulations enforced by the
FDA, we are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other similar federal and state laws regarding, among other
things, occupational safety, the use and handling of radioisotopes, environmental protection and hazardous substance control. Although
we believe that we have complied with these laws and regulations in all material respects and have not been required to take any
action to correct any noncompliance, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply
with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and development may involve the controlled use
of hazardous materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling
and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination
or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any
damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources.
 
Competition
 
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. Many of
our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions and other research organizations,
are actively engaged in the discovery, research and development of products that could compete directly or indirectly with our
products under development.
 
Allergy and Respiratory Products. Our
allergy and respiratory products and inhaled nasal steroid product, if developed and launched, will compete with numerous
prescription and non-prescription over-the-counter products targeting similar conditions, including, in the seasonal or
perennial rhinitis areas, cough and cold, as well as prescription generic products, and with other inhaled nasal steroid
products. In addition, a number of large pharmaceuticals companies produce pharmaceutical products, such as antihistamines,
corticosteroids and anti-leukotriene agents, which manage allergy and respiratory symptoms. The FDA granted marketing approval
of TEVA Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd’s Qnasl nasal steroid product in March 2012. The PFS Syringe product,
if commercialized, will compete against other self-administered epinephrine products, including EpiPen, EpiPen Jr.
and Twinject.
 
Prostate Cancer and Vaccine Products.
The development and commercialization of new drugs for cancer, and of vaccine products for viral infections, is highly competitive.
Most of the larger pharmaceutical companies, and many smaller public and private companies, have products or are engaged in research
and development activities in these fields. Some of the products approved by the FDA for certain prostate cancer-related indications
include, but are not limited to, antiandrogens (such as Leuprolide, Goserelin and Buserelin), Provenge®, Docetaxel,
JEVTANA®, and ZYTIGA® (abiraterone acetate), and other products, such as Medivation, Inc.’s MDV3100 and Bavarian
Nordic’s PROSTVAC®, are the subject of ongoing clinical trials in men with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer.
 
Savvy. Biosyn’s Savvy contraceptive
product candidate, if developed, launched and marketed, would be subject to competition from other microbicides that are currently
undergoing clinical trials and which may be sold by prescription or over-the-counter, as well as non-microbicidal products such
as condoms. There are also a number of existing contraception products currently on the market, which could greatly limit the marketability
of the Savvy contraception product candidate. As a result, there can be no assurance that Biosyn’s Savvy product candidate,
even if developed, would be able to compete successfully with existing products or other innovative products under development.
 
Most of the entities developing and marketing
competing products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical
testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we have. Smaller or early-stage companies
may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly for collaborative agreements with large, established companies and access
to capital. These entities may also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel,
as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.
 

23
 

 
The pharmaceutical industry is characterized
by extensive research efforts and rapid and significant technological change and intense competition. We are much smaller in terms
of size and resources than many of our competitors in the United States and abroad, which include, among others, major pharmaceutical,
chemical, consumer product, and biotechnology companies, specialized firms, universities and other research institutions. Our competitors
may succeed in developing technologies and products that are safer, more effective or less costly than any developed by us, thus
rendering our technology and potential products obsolete and noncompetitive.
 
Patents and Proprietary Technologies
 
Patents and other proprietary rights are
important to our business. Our policy is to file patent applications and protect inventions and improvements to inventions that
are commercially important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality agreements,
employee invention assignment agreements, continuing technology innovations and licensing opportunities to protect our technology
and develop and maintain our competitive position.
 
During 2010, we acquired license
agreements covering intellectual property relating to three small molecule anti-inflammatory compounds, named APC-100,
APC-200 and APC-300, for the potential treatment of human prostate cancer (PCa). The intellectual property covered by the
agreements was licensed from the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, or WARF. The patents and applications covered by the
license agreements include two issued U.S. patents and related U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications.
 
The license agreements pursuant to which
we license the telomerase vaccine technology cover two U.S. patents.
 
We are the exclusive licensee,
under the license agreement with Nevagen, of rights under two issued U.S. patents, and related U.S. and foreign patents
applications, relating to the TLI technology, in the field of prevention and treatment and detection of viral infectious
diseases. The licensed intellectual property includes the use of the technology known as “Transgenic Lymphocyte
Technology.”
 
We currently hold one U.S. patent
relating to Savvy gel for the reduction in transmission of HIV infection.
 
It is impossible to anticipate the breadth
or degree of protection that any of the above patents will afford, or whether we can meaningfully protect our rights to our unpatented
trade secrets. No assurance can be given that competitors will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information
and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology. Because of limited financial resources,
we may not have the financial resources to prepare, file, or prosecute all of the patent applications that we might otherwise desire,
or to maintain all U.S. and foreign patents that have previously been issued.
 
Our failure to obtain patent protection
or otherwise protect our proprietary technology or proposed products may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position
and business prospects. The patent application process takes several years and entails considerable expense. There is no assurance
that additional patents will issue from these applications or, if patents do issue, that the claims allowed will be sufficient
to protect our technology.
 
The patent positions of pharmaceutical and
biotechnology firms are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Furthermore, the breadth of claims allowed
in biotechnology patents is unpredictable. We cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered
by the patents and applications described above, that the licensors of the technologies were the first to invent the technology
that is the subject of such patents or patent applications, or that the patents and applications will provide meaningful protection.
Competitors may have filed applications for, or may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights
relating to, compounds, products or processes that block or compete with the rights that we hold. We are aware of patent applications
filed and patents issued to third parties relating to HFA propellant technology and aerosolized inhalers, and there can be no assurance
that any patent applications or patents will not have a material adverse effect on potential products we are developing or may
seek to develop in the future.
 

24
 

 
Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology
industry. Litigation may be necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us, to protect
trade secrets or know-how owned or licensed by us, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of third parties.
Except as described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below, no third party has asserted that we are infringing such third
party’s patent rights or other intellectual property, there can be no assurance that litigation asserting such claims will
not be initiated, that we would prevail in any such litigation or that we would be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable
terms, if at all. Any such claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, can
be time-consuming and expensive to defend or prosecute and to resolve. If other companies prepare and file patent applications
in the United States that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine
priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable to us. There can be no assurance
that third parties will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or techniques, will not gain access to our
trade secrets or disclose such technology to the public or that Adamis can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary technology.
We typically require our employees to execute confidentiality agreements upon commencement of employment with us. There can be
no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our technology in the
event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information, that the parties to such agreements will not breach such agreements
or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be discovered independently by our competitors.
 
Employees
 
As of June 29, 2012, we had eight full-time
employees and no part-time employees. None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement or represented by a
labor or trade union, and we believe that our relations with our employees are good.
 
Available Information
 
We are subject to the reporting requirements
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Consequently, we are required to file or furnish reports and information with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K,
amendments to those reports, and other information and documents. These reports and other information concerning us may be obtained
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or accessed through the SEC’s
website at http://www.sec.gov or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Upon written request to the Company at Adamis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation, 11455 El Camino Real, Suite 310, San Diego, CA 92130, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, the Company will provide
a copy of the annual report on Form 10-K to any stockholder. The information on our website is not incorporated into, and is not
part of, this annual report.
 

25
 

 

ITEM 1A:RISK FACTORS

 
The risks described below may not be
the only ones relating to our company. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations.
You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks
actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely
affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock would likely decline.
 
Risks Related to Our Financial Condition
 
Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our
ability to continue as a going concern.
 
Our audited financial statements for the
year ended March 31, 2012, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern. Our
independent registered public accounting firm has included a “going concern” explanatory paragraph in its report on
our financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, indicating that we have incurred recurring losses from
operations and have limited working capital to pursue our business alternatives, and that these factors raise substantial doubt
about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations are dependent on our ability to obtain additional funding
in the near future and thereafter, and there are no assurances that such funding will be available
at all or will be available in sufficient amounts or on reasonable terms. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments
that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets,
sales or out-licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, we will
rapidly exhaust our resources and will be unable to continue operations. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders
would likely lose most or all of their investment in us.
 
We require additional financing.
 
We incurred a net loss of approximately
$5.3 million for the year ended March 31, 2012. At March 31, 2012, we had approximately $7,500 in cash and cash equivalents,
no accounts receivable, and significant liabilities and obligations. As described below under the heading, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources,” after the end
of our fiscal 2012 year, on April 2, 2012, we completed a private placement financing transaction with an investor, pursuant
to which we issued a 10% Senior Convertible Note in the aggregate principal amount of $1.0 million and 1,000,000 shares of our
common stock, and received gross proceeds of $1.0 million, excluding transaction costs and expenses; and on June 11, 2012, we completed
(i) a private placement with the same investor, pursuant to which we issued a 10% Senior Convertible Note in the aggregate principal
amount of $500,000 and 500,000 shares of common stock, and received gross proceeds of $500,000, excluding transaction costs and
expenses, and (ii) a private placement with a different investor, pursuant to which we issued a Convertible Promissory Note in
the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 and 500,000 shares of common stock, and received gross proceeds of $500,000, excluding
transaction costs and expenses.
 
At June 13, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents
of approximately $1.1 million and absent additional funding, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to
fund our operations only through approximately August 31, 2012. Continued operations are dependent on our ability to complete additional
fund raising transactions. Given the recent downturn in the economy, such additional funds may not be available at all or may not
be available on reasonable terms. If we do not obtain additional funding in the near future, our cash resources will rapidly be
depleted and we will be required to materially reduce or suspend operations, which would likely have a material adverse effect
on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have business relationships, at least until
additional funding is obtained.
 

26
 

 
Our management intends to address any shortfall
of working capital by attempting to secure additional funding through equity or debt financings, sales or out-licensing of intellectual
property assets, seeking partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or third parties to co-develop and fund research and
development efforts, or similar transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any required funding.
If we are unsuccessful in securing funding, we will defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures. There is no assurance
that any of the above options will be implemented on a timely basis or that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable
terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we will be required to delay development or commercialization
of some or all of our products, to seek to license to third parties the rights to commercialize certain products that we would
otherwise seek to develop or commercialize internally, or to reduce resources devoted to product development. Delays in obtaining
funding to support the development and introduction of our products would delay commercial introduction of products, reduce our
revenues and income, require additional funding from other sources, and adversely affect our ability to fund research and development
efforts for cancer indications, vaccine product candidates and other product candidates. In addition, one or more licensors of
patents and intellectual property rights that we have in-licensed could seek to terminate our license agreements if our lack of
funding made us unable to comply with the provisions of those agreements. If we did not have sufficient funds to continue operations,
we could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives that would likely result in our stockholders losing some
or all of their investment in us. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern
could adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative relationships with business partners, make it more difficult to
obtain required financing on favorable terms or at all, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and could otherwise
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Even if we successfully obtain additional
funding in the near future, we are subject to the risks associated with early stage companies, including: the need for additional
financings; the uncertainty of research and development efforts resulting in successful commercial products, as well as the marketing
and customer acceptance of such products; unexpected issues with the FDA or other federal or state regulatory authorities; competition
from larger organizations; reliance on the proprietary technology of others; dependence on key personnel; uncertain patent protection;
and dependence on corporate partners and collaborators. No assurance can be given as to the timing or ultimate success of obtaining
future funding.
 
Until we can generate a sufficient amount
of revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public
or private equity offerings, debt financings, revenues from strategic collaborations, or sales or licenses of assets or intellectual
property. Sales of additional equity securities will dilute our current stockholders’ ownership. If we are not able to secure
additional equity or debt financing when needed on acceptable terms, we may have to sell some of our assets or enter into a strategic
collaboration for one or more of our product candidate programs at an earlier stage of development than would otherwise be desired.
This could lower the economic value of these collaborations to us. In addition, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate
one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs, or ultimately, cease operations.
 
Statements in this Report concerning our future plans
and operations are dependent on our ability to secure adequate funding and the absence of unexpected delays or adverse developments.
 
The statements contained throughout
this Annual Report concerning future events or developments or our future activities, including concerning, among other
matters, current or planned clinical trials, anticipated research and development activities, anticipated dates for
commencement of clinical trials, anticipated completion dates of clinical trials, anticipated meetings with the FDA or other
regulatory authorities concerning our product candidates, anticipated dates for submissions to obtain required regulatory
marketing approvals, anticipated dates for commercial introduction of products, and other statements concerning our future
operations and activities, are forward-looking statements that in each instance assume that we are able to obtain sufficient
funding in the near term and thereafter to support such activities and continue our operations and planned activities in a
timely manner. There can be no assurance that this will be the case. Also, such statements assume that there are no
significant unexpected developments or events that delay or prevent such activities from occurring. Failure to timely obtain
sufficient funding, or unexpected development or events, could delay the occurrence of such events or prevent the
events described in any such statements from occurring.
 
We have incurred losses since our inception, and we anticipate
that we will continue to incur losses. We may never achieve or sustain profitability.
 

27
 

 
We incurred net losses of approximately
$31 million since inception and net losses of approximately $4.9 million for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. From inception
through March 31, 2012, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $31 million. These losses will increase as we continue
our research and development activities, seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates and commercialize any approved products.
These losses will cause, among other things, our stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. The future earnings
and cash flow from operations of our business are dependent, in part, on our ability to further develop our products and on revenues
and profitability from sales of our allergy and respiratory products and product candidates.
 
There can be no assurance that we will grow
or be profitable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at
all or on a sustained basis. We expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and expenses, some of which could be
significant, due to manufacturing, marketing, research, development, and clinical trial activities. If our product candidates fail
in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become
profitable. As we commercialize and market products, we will need to incur expenses for product marketing and brand awareness and
conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and
administrative expenses, are expected to result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. Even if we do achieve
profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.
 
Risks Related to Our Business and Industry
 
Our limited operating history may make it difficult to
evaluate our business and our future viability.
 
We are in the early stage of operations
and development and have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Similarly,
we acquired rights to the technologies underlying APC-100, APC-200 and APC-300, and the telomerase technology, during 2010 and
2011. We are subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a company with a limited operating history, such as
regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, the general strength of regional and national economies,
and governmental regulation. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm our business
and prospects. We may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we will face. The likelihood
of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered
in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new drug technology, and the competitive and regulatory
environment in which we operate or may choose to operate in the future.
 
Some of our potential products and technologies are in
early stages of development.
 
The development of new pharmaceutical products
is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we might undertake
will be successful. Our potential products in oncology and viral fields will require extensive additional research and development
before any commercial introduction, as will research and development work on the generic nasal steroid product and other allergy
and respiratory products. There can be no assurance that any future research, development or clinical trial efforts will result
in viable products or meet efficacy standards. Future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow
us to successfully market our product candidates. Obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be
obtained at all. Any such delays or setbacks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our financial goals.
 
We are subject to substantial government regulation, which
could materially adversely affect our business.
 
The production and marketing of our products
and potential products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are currently
subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and will face similar regulation
and review for overseas approval and sales from governmental authorities outside of the United States. Most of the product candidates
that we are currently developing must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process
before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, more difficult and more costly to bring our potential products to market,
and we cannot guarantee that any of our potential products will be approved. For
 

28
 

 
example, there can be no assurances that we will
file an application with the FDA for marketing approval of our PFS Syringe product, that the FDA will ultimately grant marketing
approval for the PFS Syringe product, or concerning the timing of filing a marketing application or obtaining any such FDA approval.
The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and many products for which FDA approval
has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive
regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If we or our collaboration
partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory
approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal
prosecution.
 
Failure to obtain FDA or other required
regulatory approvals, or withdrawal of previous approvals, would adversely affect our business. Such failure or withdrawal may
be encountered due to, among other reasons, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, inability to follow
patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later
clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period
of product development in the United States and abroad. In the United States, there is stringent FDA oversight in product clearance
and enforcement activities, causing medical product development to experience longer approval cycles, greater risk and uncertainty,
and higher expenses. Internationally, there is a risk that we may not be successful in meeting the quality standards or other certification
requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product
may be labeled and promoted, or may prevent us from broadening the uses of products for different applications. In addition, we
may not receive FDA approval to export our potential products in the future, and countries to which potential products are to be
exported may not approve them for import.
 
Manufacturing facilities for our products
will also be subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing
regulations will continue to be strictly scrutinized. To the extent we decide to manufacture our own products, a governmental authority
may challenge our compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown
problems with one of our potential products or facilities may result in restrictions on the potential product or the facility.
If we decide to outsource the commercial production of our products, any challenge by a regulatory authority of the compliance
of the manufacturer could hinder our ability to bring our products to market.
 
We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials.
If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain,
or may experience delays in obtaining, regulatory approval, or may not be successful in commercializing our planned and future
products.
 
Like many companies our size, we do not
have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for our product candidates without the assistance of third parties
who conduct the studies on our behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organizations,
or CROs, that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities
conduct the pre-clinical safety studies, as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. The CROs typically perform
patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. We intend to rely
on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates and to use different toxicology facilities and CROs for our
pre-clinical and clinical studies.
 
Our reliance on these third parties for
development activities will reduce our control over these activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their
contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is
compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may be required to replace them, and
our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. Although we believe there are a number of third-party contractors that
we could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third-party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly,
we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates.
 
Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing
of our product candidates could result in increased costs and delay our ability to generate significant revenues.
 

29
 

 
Delays in the commencement or completion
of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether current or planned clinical
trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety
of reasons, including delays in:
 


 
●
obtaining required funding;

 
●
obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial;

 
●
reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites;

 
●
obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for any or all product candidates;

 
●
obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and

 
●
recruiting participants for a clinical trial.

 
In addition, once a clinical trial has begun,
it may be suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:
 


 
●
failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements;

 
●
inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;

 
●
failure to achieve certain efficacy and/or safety standards; or

 
●
lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.

 
Clinical trials require sufficient participant
enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the target population, the nature of the trial protocol,
the proximity of participants to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility
criteria for our clinical trials and competing trials. Delays in enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development
times. Our failure to enroll participants in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trials beyond current
expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of participants than we
may project for any of our product candidates. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of
participants in a timely or cost-effective manner.
 
Furthermore, enrolled participants may drop
out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. A number of factors
can influence the discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo in a trial; possible lack of
effect of the product candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced,
whether or not related to the product candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce
participants to discontinue from the trial.
 
We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory
authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time if we or they believe the participants in such clinical
trials, or in independent third-party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable
health risks or for other reasons.
 
We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our
clinical trials if the trials are not well designed, do not meet regulatory requirements or the results are negative or inconclusive,
which may result in significant negative repercussions on business and financial condition.
 
Before regulatory approval for any potential
product can be obtained, we must undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate the tolerability and efficacy of
the product, both on its own terms, and as compared to the other principal drugs on the market that have the same therapeutic indication.
We cannot assure you that we will obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development
phase to enter the human clinical testing phase. In addition, we cannot assure you that any authorized preclinical or clinical
testing will be completed successfully within any specified time period by us, or without significant additional resources or expertise
to those originally expected to be necessary. We cannot assure you that such testing will show potential products to be safe and
efficacious or that any such product will be approved for a specific indication. Further, the results from preclinical studies
and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. In addition,
we or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable
health risks.
 

30
 

 
Completion of clinical tests depends on,
among other things, the number of patients available for testing, which is a function of many factors, including the number of
patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers,
the eligibility criteria for tests, as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile,
but different treatments. We will rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations and/or co-operative groups, to
assist us in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials, as well as to process the clinical results and manage test requests, which
may result in delays or failure to complete trials, if the third parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards. A
failure by us or such third parties to keep to the terms of a product program development for any particular product candidate
or to complete the clinical trials for a product candidate in the envisaged time frame could have significant negative repercussions
on our business and financial condition.
 
We may not complete our clinical trials in the time expected,
which could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which may adversely affect our future revenues and financial
condition.
 
Although for planning purposes we will forecast
the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such
as delays, funding limitations, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions and the rate of patient
enrollment. Clinical trials involving our product candidates may not commence or be completed as forecast. In certain circumstances,
we will rely on academic institutions or clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of
clinical trials involving our products. We will have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than
if we conducted them entirely on our own. These trials may not commence or be completed as we expect and may not be conducted successfully.
Failure to commence or complete, or delays in, any of our planned clinical trials could delay or prevent the commercialization
of our products and harm our business and may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition.
 
We are subject to the risk of clinical trial and product
liability lawsuits.
 
The testing of human health care product
candidates entails an inherent risk of allegations of clinical trial liability, while the marketing and sale of approved products
entails an inherent risk of allegations of product liability and associated adverse publicity. We currently maintain liability
insurance coverage of $5,000,000. Such insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable
terms, or at all. As we conduct additional clinical trials and introduce products into the United States market, the risk of adverse
events increases and our requirements for liability insurance coverage are likely to increase. We are subject to the risk that
substantial liability claims from the testing or marketing of pharmaceutical products could be asserted against us in the future.  There
can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance on acceptable terms, particularly in overseas locations,
for clinical and commercial activities or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities.
An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability
claims could inhibit our business.  Moreover, our current and future coverages may not be adequate to protect us from
all of the liabilities that we may incur. If losses from liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial
liabilities that exceed our financial resources. In addition, a product or clinical trial liability action against us would be
expensive and time-consuming to defend, even if we ultimately prevailed. If we are required to pay a claim, we may not have sufficient
financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. A product liability claim brought against Adamis
in excess of its insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon its business, financial condition and results
of operations.
 
We do not have commercial-scale manufacturing capability,
and we lack commercial manufacturing experience. We will likely rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our product candidates.
 
We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities
for clinical or commercial production of product candidates. We do not have any experience in drug formulation or manufacturing,
and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Accordingly,
we expect to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Any performance failure on the part of our
contract manufacturers could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our current or future product
candidates, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses.
 

31
 

 
The manufacture of pharmaceutical products
requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process
controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial
production.
 
These problems include difficulties with
production costs and yields, quality control (including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing), shortages
of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. If our third-party
contract manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations or under
applicable regulations, our ability to provide product candidates to patients in our clinical trials or commercially would be jeopardized.
 As an example, our PFS Syringe product is currently manufactured by Catalent Pharma Solutions
(an FDA licensed and approved cGMP facility) in Brussels, Belgium and, therefore, is subject to regulation by the Belgian Ministry
of Health, as well as the FDA. If we file an application for marketing approval of the product and the FDA grants marketing approval,
any delay or interruption in the supply of product could delay the commercial launch of the product or impair our ability to meet
demand for the product. Difficulties in supplying products for clinical trials could increase the costs associated with our clinical
trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials or qualify new manufacturers at significant
additional expense, possibly causing commercial delays or termination of the trials.
 
Our products can only be manufactured in
a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons,
we may not be able to replace manufacturing capacity for our products quickly if we or our contract manufacturer(s) were unable
to use manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other
difficulty, or if such facilities were deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and such non-compliance could
not be rapidly rectified. An inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
 
If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate
reimbursement for our products, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be impaired.
 
Government and insurance reimbursements
for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians and pharmaceutical companies
such as Adamis that plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. Our ability to earn
sufficient returns on our products and potential products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs
of such products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed
care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, our ability to have our products eligible for Medicare, Medicaid
or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of our products. If, for any
reason, Medicare, Medicaid or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for our products, our ability to commercialize
our products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our potential drug products will be eligible for reimbursement.
 
There has been a trend toward declining
government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items and this trend may accelerate with proposed healthcare
reform legislation. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical and pharmaceutical products.
 
If purchasers or users of our products and
related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products, they may forego or reduce
such use. Even if our products are approved for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, of which there can be
no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Significant uncertainty exists as to the
reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage
will be available.
 

32
 

 
Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system
may affect our ability to sell our products profitably.
 
In both the United States and certain foreign
jurisdictions, there have been and are expected to be a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in
ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act signed
into law in the United States on March 22, 2010. In recent years, new legislation has been enacted in the United States at
the federal and state levels that effects major changes in the healthcare system, nationally and at the state level. These new
laws include a prescription drug benefit plan for Medicare beneficiaries and certain changes in Medicare reimbursement. Given the
recent enactment of these laws and other federal and state legislation and regulations relating to the healthcare system, it is
still too early to determine their impact on the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and our business. The U.S. Congress
continues to consider issues relating to the healthcare system, and future legislation or regulations may affect our ability to
market and sell products on favorable terms, which would affect our results of operations, as well as our ability to raise capital,
obtain additional collaborators or profitably market our products. Such legislation or regulation may reduce our revenues, increase
our expenses or limit the markets for our products. In particular, we expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with
the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations
and additional legislative proposals.
 
We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience.
 
We have limited experience in the sales,
marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing,
and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that
such efforts will be successful. If we decide to market any of our new products directly, we must either acquire or internally
develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or
development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available
to us or, even if available, divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product
development efforts.
 
We may seek to enter into arrangements to develop and
commercialize our products. These collaborations, if secured, may not be successful.
 
We have entered into arrangements with third
parties regarding development and commercialization of some of our products and may in the future seek to enter into collaborative
arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our potential products both in North America and international markets. There
can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that our current
or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. Similarly, we may seek to sell, out-license or enter into other similar
arrangements concerning one or more of our products or product candidates, such as our C31G product. There are no assurances that
any third party will have an interest in pursuing discussions concerning any such transaction regarding C31G or any other product.
 
Our strategy for the future research, development,
and commercialization of our products is expected to be based in part on entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators,
licensors, licensees, health care institutions and principal investigators and others, and our commercial success is dependent
upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual obligations responsibly and with integrity. The amount and timing
of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. There can be no assurance that such
parties will perform their obligations as expected. There can be no assurance that our collaborators will devote adequate resources
to our products.
 
If we are not successful in acquiring or licensing additional
product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, our business may be adversely affected.
 
As part of our strategy, we may acquire
or license additional product candidates that we believe have growth potential. There are no assurances that we will be able to
identify promising product candidates. Even if we are successful in identifying promising product candidates, we may not be able
to reach an agreement for the acquisition or license of the product candidates with their owners on acceptable terms or at all.
 

33
 

 
We may not be able to successfully identify
any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing
an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those
with substantially greater resources, may compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved
products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms
that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates,
our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited.
 
If our competitors develop and market products that are
more effective than our product candidates or obtain regulatory and marketing approval for similar products before we do, our commercial
opportunity may be reduced or eliminated.
 
The development and commercialization of
new pharmaceutical products that target certain cancers and viral conditions, and allergy and other respiratory conditions, is
a highly competitive field, and we face competition from numerous sources, including major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies
worldwide. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, and development, production and
marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, many of these companies have more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing,
clinical trials and manufacturing of compounds, as well as in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. We also compete with
academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the same fields.
 
Competition among these entities to recruit
and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and professional personnel and consultants is also intense. As a result, there
is a risk that one or more of our competitors will develop a more effective product for the same indications for which we are developing
a product or, alternatively, bring a similar product to market before we can do so. Failure to successfully compete will adversely
impact the ability to raise additional capital and ultimately achieve profitable operations.
 
If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety
of our products in development, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw such products.
 
If concerns should arise about the safety
of any of our products that are marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science
or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. Similarly, negative publicity
could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law.
 
Our failure to adequately protect or to enforce our intellectual
property rights or secure rights to third party patents could materially harm our proprietary position in the marketplace or prevent
the commercialization of our products.
 
Our success depends in part on our ability
to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated
into our technologies and products. The patents and patent applications in our existing patent portfolio are either owned by us
or licensed to us. Our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties depends
substantially on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to
the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under
these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which
important legal principles are unresolved.
 
There is a substantial backlog of patent
applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. Patents in the United States are issued to the party
that is first to invent the claimed invention. There can be no assurance that any patent applications relating to our products
or methods will be issued as patents, or, if issued, that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that
the rights granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage. We may not be able to obtain patent rights on products, treatment
methods or manufacturing processes that we may develop or to which we may obtain license or other rights. Even if we do obtain
patents, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product  

34
 

 
candidates or provide sufficient protection
to afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. It is possible that no
patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by us or licensed to us. Others may challenge, seek
to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license. Alternatively, we may in the future be required to initiate
litigation against third parties to enforce our intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual
property claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Any adverse outcome could subject
us to significant liabilities, require us to license disputed rights from others, or require us to cease selling our future products.
 
In addition, many other organizations
are engaged in research and product development efforts that may overlap with our products.  For
example, our PFS Syringe product competes against other self-administered epinephrine products, including EpiPen, EpiPen Jr. and
Twinject; our allergy and respiratory products will compete with numerous prescription and non-prescription over-the-counter products
targeting similar conditions; numerous companies are engaged in research, development and marketing of cancer drugs and have extensive
patent portfolios relating to their drug products; and with regard to the Savvy product candidate, Ortho Pharmaceuticals and many
other companies offer contraceptive vaginal gel products. Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally
blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods under development or consideration by
us. These rights may prevent us from commercializing technology, or may require us to obtain a license from the organizations to
use the technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses that may be required on reasonable financial terms, if at all,
and cannot be sure that the patents underlying any such licenses will be valid or enforceable. As with other companies in the pharmaceutical
industry, we are subject to the risk that persons located in other countries will engage in development, marketing or sales activities
of products that would infringe our patent rights if such activities were conducted in the United States.
Our patents also may not afford protection
against competitors with similar technology. We may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature
that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product candidates, by preventing the patentability
of our products or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect our ability to market or license our product candidates.
For example, patent applications filed with the USPTO are normally maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing.
Patent applications filed in countries outside the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their
first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries.
Therefore, we or our licensors might not have been the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications on our product
candidates or for their use. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent
as in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending these rights
in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual
property rights in either the United States or foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed.
In addition, because of funding limitations
and our limited cash resources, we may not be able to devote the resources that we might otherwise desire to prepare or pursue
patent applications, either at all or in all jurisdictions in which we might desire to obtain patents, or to maintain already-issued
patents.
Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our
product candidates, such products may not gain the market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical
community.
Any products that we may develop may
not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community even if they ultimately receive
regulatory approval. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we, or future collaborators, may not be
able to generate material product revenues and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product
candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including:
 


 
●
demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials;

 
●
the prevalence and severity of any unexpected side effects;

 


35
 

 


 
●
the introduction and availability of generic substitutes for any of our products, potentially at lower prices (which, in turn, will depend on the strength of our intellectual property protection for such products);

 
●
potential or perceived advantages over alternative treatments;

 
●
the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments;

 
●
the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices;

 
●
relative convenience and ease of administration;

 
●
the strength of marketing and distribution support;

 
●
sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement; and

 
●
the product labeling or product insert (including any warnings) required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries.

 
Some of our allergy and respiratory products that have
been drug listed with the FDA and that we marketed in the past were marketed without an approved new drug application or abbreviated
new drug application. If we were to market these product again in the future, the FDA could at some future date seek to prevent
marketing of these products, require that such products be marketed only after submission and approval of drug applications, or
take other regulatory action against us with respect to these products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. 
Several of our allergy and respiratory
products that we previously marketed before 2011, including AeroHist Caplets, AeroHist Plus Caplets, AeroKid Oral Liquid and AeroOtic
HC Ear Drops, were not the subject of a new drug application or ANDA, and have not been specifically approved by the FDA for marketing
by us. We did not market these products during fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2012. These products were marketed for many years and, we
believe, are similarly situated to products marketed by many companies that are marketed without an approved new drug application
or abbreviated new drug application. The products are drug listed with the FDA in the National Drug Code Directory, but such listing
does not constitute FDA approval of the products. In June 2006, the FDA issued a Compliance Policy Guide for Marketed Unapproved
Drugs, which addressed some of the considerations utilized by the FDA in exercising its discretion with respect to products marketed
without FDA approval. The guide does not establish legally enforceable responsibilities on the FDA and generally only represents
the agency’s current thinking on a topic. The guide emphasizes that any product that is being marketed without required FDA
approvals is subject to FDA enforcement action at any time. If the FDA were to issue a Federal Register Notice outlining revised
conditions for marketing, which could include calling for the submission of an application for products such as our cough/cold
products, then if we desired to market any such products, we would take appropriate action so as to be in compliance with any such
policies. The FDA might also require clinical trials in support of any such applications, and we would need to evaluate our alternatives
in light of the costs required to conduct such trials, which could be substantial, compared to the economic benefit to us from
such products. In addition, independently of such actions, at any time the FDA could also exercise its discretion to proceed against
us and require immediate withdrawal of such products, if we decided to commence marketing them, from the market, or prohibit us
from marketing such products without first conducting required trials and obtaining approvals, or impose other penalties on us.
As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, in 2010 the FDA issued a warning letter indicating that we should not market the
PFS Syringe product without FDA marketing approval and that the product may be sold only after an application has been submitted
to the FDA and approved. Some of our unapproved allergy and respiratory products include extended release formulations, which may
subject us to a higher risk of FDA enforcement action should we decide to commence marketing them. Such actions could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If we fail to keep pace with rapid technological change
in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, our products could become obsolete, which may adversely affect our future revenues
and financial condition.
Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical
technology have undergone and are subject to rapid and significant change. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology
research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive
position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we
recover any expenses incurred in connection with developing these products, which may adversely affect our future revenues and
financial condition.

36
 

 
If we are unable to retain our management, research,
development, and clinical teams and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, our product operations and
development efforts may be seriously jeopardized.
Our success will be dependent upon the
efforts of a small management team and staff, including Dennis J. Carlo, Ph.D. The employment of Dr. Carlo may be terminated at
any time by either us or Dr. Carlo. We currently do not have key man life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers
or key employees. If key individuals leave us, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly
recruited. There is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain
the qualified personnel necessary for the operation of our business.
The loss of the services of any principal
member of our management and research, development and clinical teams could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our
scientific and business objectives. Competition among biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense,
and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals is critical to our success. We may be unable to attract and retain
key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all.
We have relationships with consultants
and scientific advisors who will continue to assist us in formulating and executing our research, development, regulatory and clinical
strategies. These consultants and scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory
contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We will have only limited control over the activities of
these consultants and scientific advisors and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited time to our activities.
We also rely on these consultants to evaluate potential compounds and products, which may be important in developing a long-term
product pipeline for us. Consultants also assist us in preparing and submitting regulatory filings. Our scientific advisors provide
scientific and technical guidance on our drug discovery and development. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time
and resources to our programs could harm our business. In addition, these advisors may have arrangements with other companies to
assist those companies in developing technologies that may compete with our products.
Our management will be required to devote substantial
time to comply with public company regulations.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, impose various requirements on public companies, including
with respect to corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of
time to these requirements.
In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires,
among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures.
In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow
management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend
significant management efforts. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements
of Section 404. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we or our independent registered
public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses,
the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory
authorities.
Our corporate compliance programs cannot guarantee
that we are now or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations.
The development, manufacturing,
pricing, sales, and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation
by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a
small company and we rely on third parties to conduct certain important functions. We also have significantly fewer employees
than many other companies that have the same or fewer product candidates in clinical development. If we fail to comply with any
of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of

37
 

 
clinical trials, restrictions
on our products or manufacturing processes, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, we are
subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to comply with potentially applicable laws
and regulations could also lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our common stock to decline and impede our ability
to raise capital or lead to the failure of our common stock to continue to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may
adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We, and the persons who were officers
and directors of Adamis at the time of the activities that are subject of the lawsuit, have been named defendants in a lawsuit
alleging, among other things, that we made material misrepresentations in private placement memoranda used to offer our common
stock to the plaintiffs. In addition, a lawsuit has been filed against us for declaratory relief seeking a declaration that certain
patent licenses held by us are invalid. Although we believe that the lawsuits are without merit and that we have substantial defenses
to these lawsuits, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could adversely
affect our results of operations, our financial condition and liquidity.
Risks Related to Our Common Stock
Provisions of our charter documents could discourage
an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult
to remove, management.
Provisions of our certificate of incorporation
and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit our
stockholders. In particular, shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval, and
upon such terms and conditions, and have such rights, privileges and preferences, as our board of directors may determine, including,
for example, rights to convert into our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may
be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance
of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes,
could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This could limit the price that certain
investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and discourage those investors from acquiring a
majority of our common stock. Further, the existence of these corporate governance provisions could have the effect of entrenching
management and making it more difficult to change our management.
Our common stock price is expected to be volatile.
The market price of our common stock
could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other
life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our
common stock to fluctuate include:


 
●
relatively low trading volume, which can result in significant volatility in the market price of our common stock based on a relatively smaller number of trades and dollar amount of transactions;

 
●
the results of our current and any future clinical trials of our product candidates;

 
●
the timing and results of ongoing preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of our preclinical product candidates;

 
●
the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including, among others, key collaboration and license agreements;

 
●
the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our product candidates;

 
●
the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of, litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights;

 
●
failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success;

 
●
general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures;

 
●
the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our product candidates;

 


38
 

 


 
●
issues in manufacturing our product candidates or any approved products;

 
●
the loss of key employees;

 
●
the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors;

 
●
changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock;

 
●
future sales of our common stock;

 
●
period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results;

 
●
publicity or announcements regarding regulatory developments relating to our products;

 
●
clinical trial results, particularly the outcome of more advanced studies, or negative responses from both domestic and foreign regulatory authorities with regard to the approvability of our products;

 
●
period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash and cash equivalents balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenue levels;

 
●
common stock sales in the public market by one or more of our larger stockholders, officers or directors;

 
●
our filing for protection under federal bankruptcy laws;

 
●
a negative outcome in any litigation or potential legal proceedings; or

 
●
other potentially negative financial announcements including:  a review of any of our filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results or delays in our filings with the SEC.

 
The stock markets in general have experienced
substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations
may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.
In the past, following periods of volatility
in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against
those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources,
which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.
Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin
Board and be subject to additional trading restrictions as a “penny stock,” which could adversely affect the liquidity
and price of such stock.
Our common stock currently trades on
the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. The OTCBB and Pink Sheets are viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid,
marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the
value of our common stock.
 Because
our common stock is not listed on any national securities exchange, such shares will also be subject to the regulations regarding
trading in “penny stocks,” which are those securities trading for less than $5.00 per share, and that are not otherwise
exempted from the definition of a penny stock under other exemptions provided for in the applicable regulations. The following
is a list of the general restrictions on the sale of penny stocks:


 
●
Before the sale of penny stock by a broker-dealer to a new purchaser, the broker-dealer must determine whether the purchaser is suitable to invest in penny stocks.  To make that determination, a broker-dealer must obtain, from a prospective investor, information regarding the purchaser’s financial condition and investment experience and objectives.  Subsequently, the broker-dealer must deliver to the purchaser a written statement setting forth the basis of the suitability finding and obtain the purchaser’s signature on such statement.

 
●
A broker-dealer must obtain from the purchaser an agreement to purchase the securities.  This agreement must be obtained for every purchase until the purchaser becomes an “established customer.”

 


39
 

 
A broker-dealer may not effect a purchase of a penny stock
less than two business days after a broker-dealer sends such agreement to the purchaser:


 
●
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, requires that before effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker-dealer must provide the purchaser with a “risk disclosure document” that contains, among other things, a description of the penny stock market and how it functions and the risks associated with such investment.  These disclosure rules are applicable to both purchases and sales by investors.

 
●
A dealer that sells penny stock must send to the purchaser, within ten days after the end of each calendar month, a written account statement including prescribed information relating to the security.

 
These requirements can severely limit
the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few brokers or dealers are likely to be willing to undertake these
compliance activities. As a result of our common stock not being listed on a national securities exchange and the rules and restrictions
regarding penny stock transactions, an investor’s ability to sell to a third party and our ability to raise additional capital
may be limited. We make no guarantee that market-makers will make a market in our common stock, or that any market for our common
stock will continue.
Our principal stockholders have significant influence
over us, and your interests as a stockholder may conflict with the interests of those persons.
Based on the number of outstanding shares
of our common stock held by our stockholders as of June 13, 2012, our ten largest stockholders beneficially own approximately
48% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and our largest stockholder holds approximately 31% of the outstanding common
stock. As a result, those stockholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management
and affairs after the merger and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger,
consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and any other significant corporate transaction. The interests
of these persons may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. For example, such persons
could delay or prevent a change of control of us even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant
concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception
that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.

ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2:PROPERTIES

 We currently lease approximately
2,400 square feet of office space for our principal executive offices in San Diego, California. We believe that our facilities
are adequate for our needs for the foreseeable future.

ITEM 3:LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In addition to the matters described
below, we may become involved in or subject to, routine litigation, claims, disputes, proceedings and investigations in the ordinary
course of business, which in our opinion will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results
of operations.
Cosmo Bioscience, Inc. et. al. v. Adamis Pharmaceuticals
Corp. and Maurizio Zanetti
Cosmo
Bioscience, Inc. et. al. v. Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corp. and Maurizio Zanetti was filed in San Diego Superior Court in May
2010 and was stayed in November 2010. Plaintiffs are affiliated Cosmo Bioscience entities who claim to have sublicensed certain
patented technology from Eurogen BV, an entity wholly owned and controlled by Maurizio Zanetti. Plaintiffs claimed that Zanetti
wrongfully terminated their license, and further that Zanetti improperly licensed the same technology to Adamis in violation of
plaintiffs’ exclusive license agreement. Plaintiffs asserted a single claim for declaratory relief seeking a declaration
that the Cosmo sublicense was in full force and effect, and that the Adamis license is invalid. In a previous effort to assert
claims with respect to the technology, one of the principals of Cosmo previously had claimed to be a co-inventor of the patents
involved in the

40
 

 
lawsuit –
a claim which was rejected by a U.S. federal district court. On July 26, 2010, Zanetti filed a motion to compel arbitration
on the ground that the license he signed with Cosmo specified that Italian courts and Italian law would govern the license. Also
on that date, Adamis filed a motion to stay the litigation pending resolution of any Italian arbitration. Those motions were granted
in favor of Zanetti and Adamis on November 22, 2010, and the Cosmo litigation was stayed. Cosmo filed and served on
Zanetti a Notice of Arbitration, seeking to compel arbitration in Italy, on May 14, 2012. Adamis is not a party to the arbitration
because it was not a party to the Cosmo license agreement. 
Curtis Leahy, et. al. v. Dennis J. Carlo, et al.
In May 2010, Curtis Leahy, et. al.
v. Dennis J. Carlo, et al. was filed in San Diego Superior Court. The plaintiffs – Antaeus Capital Partners, Curtis Leahy,
and David Amron – are Adamis shareholders, and they sought to represent a putative class of shareholders. The defendants
named in the Complaint are Adamis, Dennis Carlo, David Marguglio, Robert Hopkins, and Richard Aloi, who are (or, in the case of
Mr. Aloi, were) officers and/or directors of Adamis. Plaintiffs assert claims for violations of Section 25401, 25501, and 25504
of the California Corporations Code, and claims for common law fraud and negligent misrepresentation based on the allegations that
defendants misrepresented and omitted material information in private placement memoranda distributed by Adamis in 2006 and 2008
regarding, among other things, Adamis’ license rights with respect to certain patented anti-viral technology; this claim
appears to be based in part on the allegations of the Cosmo plaintiffs in the Cosmo lawsuit described above.
On May 27, 2011, plaintiffs filed
a motion for class certification seeking to certify a putative class of shareholders who purchased stock pursuant to either or
both of Adamis’ 2006 and 2008 private placement memoranda. On June 28, 2011, the court issued an order denying the plaintiffs’
motion for class certification on the grounds that (1) plaintiffs failed to meet their burden to show that there are common issues
of fact to certify the class and (2) the individual plaintiffs were not adequate class representatives. Plaintiffs have appealed
the court’s order denying class certification, and Adamis believes the appeal will be resolved in late 2012 or early 2013.
Adamis continues to believe that the
plaintiffs’ allegations are without merit, intends to defend against plaintiffs’ claims vigorously and may assert any
available counterclaims.
Agape World, Inc.
Agape World, Inc. is a company involved
in an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding filed in 2009. Its principal, Nicholas Cosmo, was indicted and faces criminal trial on
many counts of wire fraud and other claims, based on allegations that he operated a Ponzi scheme through Agape and other entities.
More than two years before the date of this Report on Form 10-K, the bankruptcy trustee of Agape contacted Adamis by telephone,
asserting that Agape World paid $1 million to Adamis for 2 million shares of common stock of Adamis, but that the stock was issued
not to Agape World, but instead to Mr. Cosmo, a principal of Agape World, and claiming that this constituted a fraudulent transfer.
The Company believes that the trustee has recovered the stock from the principal. The Company responded to the trustee denying
any fraudulent transfer or any other basis for a claim by the trustee. There has been no further communication between the trustee
and Adamis for more than two years, and no suit or any action has been filed against Adamis. Management believes that the trustee
has no basis for any fraudulent transfer or other claims against Adamis. Due to the limited nature of discussions with Agape, the
early stage of this matter and the facts in this case, the outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.
The litigation described in this section
could divert management time and attention from Adamis, could involve significant amounts of legal fees and other fees and expenses.
An adverse outcome in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on Adamis.

ITEM 4:MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

41
 

PART II

ITEM 5:MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Price Range of Common Stock
Our common stock is traded on the OTC
Bulletin Board, or OTCBB, under the trading symbol ADMP.OB. The following table sets forth the range of high and low sales prices
for the common stock as reported on the OTCBB for the periods indicated below. The quotations below reflect inter-dealer prices,
without retail mark-up, markdown or commission, and may not represent actual transactions.


  
High  
Low 

Fiscal 2011 
   
  

First Quarter (April 2010 - June 2010) 
$0.36  
$0.15 

Second Quarter (July 2010 - September 2010) 
$0.35  
$0.17 

Third Quarter (October 2010 - December 2010) 
$0.31  
$0.20 

Fourth Quarter (January 2011 - March 2011) 
$0.23  
$0.16 

Fiscal 2012 
    
   

First Quarter (April 2011 - June 2011) 
$0.25  
$0.18 

Second Quarter (July 2011 - September 2011) 
$0.26  
$0.17 

Third Quarter (October 2011 - December 2011) 
$0.30  
$0.15 

Fourth Quarter (January 2012 - March 2012) 
$0.25  
$0.15 

 
As of June 13, 2012, there were
approximately 117 holders of record common stock. The number of record holders was determined from the records of our transfer
agent and does not include beneficial owners of our common stock whose shares are held in the names of various security brokers,
dealers, and registered clearing agencies.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash
dividends on our common stock, and we do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our stockholders will not
receive a return on their investment unless the value of our shares increases, which may or may not occur. Any future determination
to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our financial condition, operating
results, capital requirements, any applicable contractual restrictions and such other factors as our deems relevant.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
The following table sets forth, as of
March 31, 2012, information with respect to our equity compensation plans, including our 1995 Equity Incentive Plan, the 1995
Directors’ Stock Option Plan, the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, and with respect to certain
other options and warrants.


42
 

 


Plan Category 
Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of
    outstanding options, warrants and rights (a)  
Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants
    and rights (b)  
Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
 5,230,398  
$.24  
 8,483,215 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 
 2,473,245  
$.74  
   

  
 7,703,643  
    
 8,483,215 

 
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
Information concerning our sales of unregistered
securities during our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, has previously been reported in reports on Form 10-Q and reports on Form
8-K that we filed during that fiscal year.
 
ITEM 7: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion and analysis
of financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes of the Company appearing elsewhere in this Report. This discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains
certain statements that are not strictly historical and are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a high degree of risk and uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially
from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to other risks and uncertainties that exist in our operations, development
efforts and business environment, including those set forth in this Item 7, and in the sections entitled “1A. Risk Factors”
and “1. Business” in this Report and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Report. All forward-looking statements
included in this Report are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and except as may be required
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the Company assumes no obligation
to update any such forward-looking statement.
General
Company Overview
Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation is
an emerging pharmaceutical company engaged in the development and commercialization of a variety of specialty pharmaceutical products.
Our products are concentrated in major therapeutic areas including oncology (cancer), immunology and infectious diseases (viruses)
and allergy and respiratory.
We are focused on the development of
preventive and therapeutic vaccine products and cancer drugs for patients with unmet medical needs. During 2010, we acquired rights
under three exclusive license agreements covering three small molecule compounds, named APC-100, APC-200 and APC-300, that we believe
are promising drug candidates for the potential treatment of human prostate cancer (PCa). The intellectual property covered by
the agreements was licensed from the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, or WARF. In 2006 and 2007, APC-100 and APC-200, respectively,
received the National Cancer Institute’s multi-year, multi-million dollar RAPID (Rapid Access to Preventative Intervention
Development) Award. The NCI Division of Cancer Prevention gives this award each year under the RAPID Program to promising new preventative/
therapeutic anti-cancer drugs.

43
 


We previously submitted an Investigational
New Drug application, or IND, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, seeking approval to permit us to commence human
clinical trials for the APC-100 compound in men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer. On August 11, 2011, we announced
that we had enrolled the first patient in a Phase 1/2a prostate cancer clinical study relating to the use of the APC-100 product
to treat men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The study began at the University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center and
has been extended to the Wayne State University Karmanos Cancer Institute, assuming adequate funding.
In April 2011, we acquired exclusive
rights to patented telomerase-based cancer vaccine technology from the Regents of the University of California. At the same time,
we acquired exclusive rights to a related patent from the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center. We intend to pursue development of
the technology initially for what we believe may be a novel cell-based vaccine product for prostate cancer, tentatively named TeloB-VAX.
The technology is intended to activate the body’s natural defense machinery to stimulate an immune response against one of
nature’s most prevalent tumor markers, telomerase. We believe that the technology may have applicability to a variety of
other kinds of cancer.
We have also acquired exclusive license
rights to other patented potentially preventative and therapeutic vaccine technology. The vaccine technology may be applicable
to certain viral-induced diseases such as influenza and hepatitis B and C, as well as prostate cancer. However, we currently intend
to focus initially on the development of one or more of the other recently licensed prostate cancer product candidates and technologies,
and as a result the timing of development of this viral vaccine technology is subject to uncertainty.
We are also focused on developing and
commercializing products in the anti-inflammatory, allergy and respiratory field. We have developed an Epinephrine Injection USP
1:1000 (0.3mg Pre-Filled Single Dose Syringe) product, or the single dose PFS Syringe product, a pre-filled epinephrine syringe
product for use in the emergency treatment of extreme acute allergic reactions, or anaphylactic shock. If launched, the product
will compete in a well-established U.S. market estimated to be over $220 million in annual sales, based on industry data. Following
discussions with the FDA during fiscal 2011, we completed a regulatory dossier relating to the product, and once we obtain sufficient
funding to support the costs of proceeding with the FDA filing for regulatory approval and the costs of a commercial launch of
the product, we intend to submit an application to the FDA for marketing approval of the product and to commercially market the
product as soon as reasonably practicable after the FDA allows for marketing of the product.
Additional product candidates in our
allergy and respiratory product pipeline include a steroid HFA (hydrofluoroalkane) metered dose inhaler product, referred to as
APC-1000, for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD; a generic HFA bronchodilator, referred to as APC-2000;
and an HFA pressurized metered dose nasal steroid for the treatment of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis, referred to as
APC-3000. Our goal is to commence initial commercial sales of the APC-3000 nasal steroid product in the third quarter of calendar
2014 and two other respiratory products in calendar 2015. During fiscal 2011, we entered into a strategic manufacturing, supply,
and product development agreement with Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Beximco is a leading manufacturer of pharmaceutical formulations
and active pharmaceutical ingredients in Bangladesh. Beximco has a large number of products covering broad therapeutic categories,
including asthma and allergy inhalers, antibiotics, anti-hypertensives, anti-diabetics, and anti-retrovirals. Adamis and Beximco
intend to introduce a number of separate drugs into the U.S. over the next years in the allergy and respiratory areas and may co-develop
certain drugs.
We also have a contraceptive gel
product candidate named Savvy (C31G®). In December 2010, we announced the successful completion of a Phase 3 contraceptive
trial of Savvy. The study met its primary endpoint and was conducted by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development (NICHD), National Institutes of Health (NIH), in the Contraceptive Clinical Trials Network at 14 sites
in the United States. The Phase 3 trial was a randomized, double-masked, controlled comparator study to assess whether a gel containing
the spermicide C31G was non-inferior to Conceptrol®, a commercially available product containing nonoxynol-9 (N-9). The clinical
investigators found that C31G was not inferior in contraceptive efficacy to the comparator drug. Moreover, the gel was well-tolerated
and had a high degree of acceptability in women who completed the study. Currently, to our knowledge all spermicides commercially
available in the U.S. contain the active ingredient N-9 in a carrier such as a gel, film, cream, foam, suppository, or tablet.
C31G does not contain nonoxynol-9 and, if commercialized, may offer an alternative for women who seek a non-hormonal method of
contraception. In considering commercialization alternatives, we will likely focus on seeking to enter into an out-licensing or
similar transaction with organizations that have a focus or business unit in the area of contraception. There are no assurances
that any third party will have an interest in pursuing discussions concerning a transaction regarding C31G.
 


44
 

 
Our general business strategy is to generate
revenue through launch of our allergy and respiratory products in development, in order to generate cash flow to help fund expansion
of our allergy and respiratory business, as well as support our future cancer and vaccine product development efforts. To achieve
our goals and support our overall strategy, we will need to raise a substantial amount of funding and make substantial investments
in equipment, new product development and working capital. We estimate that approximately $2.5 million to $3 million will be required
to support the regulatory application and a commercial launch of the PFS Syringe product following marketing approval, and that
an additional approximately $6-$9 million or more must be invested to support development and commercial introduction of our APC-3000
aerosolized nasal steroid product candidate and our two other allergy and respiratory product candidates.
Corporate Background
Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation was
founded in June 2006 as a Delaware corporation. Effective April 1, 2009, the company formerly named Adamis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation, or Old Adamis, completed a business combination transaction with Cellegy. Before the merger, Cellegy was a public
company and Old Adamis was a private company. In connection with the consummation of the merger and pursuant to the terms of the
definitive merger agreement relating to the transaction, Cellegy was the surviving corporation in the merger and changed its name
from Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, and Old Adamis survived as a wholly-owned subsidiary
and changed its corporate name to Adamis Corporation.
We have three wholly-owned subsidiaries:
Adamis Corporation; Biosyn, Inc., which has rights to the C31G product; and Cellegy Holdings, Inc. Adamis Corporation has two wholly-owned
subsidiaries: Adamis Viral Therapies, Inc., or Adamis Viral, was formed to focus on our cancer and vaccine technologies; and Adamis
Laboratories, Inc., or Adamis Labs, was formed to focus on our allergy and respiratory products.
Going Concern and Management Plan
Our independent registered public
accounting firm has included a “going concern” explanatory paragraph in its report on our financial statements
for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 indicating that we have incurred recurring losses from operations and have
limited working capital to pursue our business alternatives, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability
to continue as a going concern. As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately $7,500 in cash, an accumulated deficit of
approximately $31 million and substantial liabilities and obligations. As described below under the heading,
“Liquidity and Capital Resources,” we terminated our November 2010 purchase agreement with an investor that had
previously provided funding during fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, and we do not expect to receive additional funds from that
investor pursuant to the purchase agreement. We have limited cash reserves, liabilities that exceed our assets and
significant cash flow deficiencies. Additionally, we will need significant funding in the short term to continue operations
and for the future operations and the expenditures that will be required to conduct the clinical and regulatory work to
develop our product candidates.
As previously reported, after the end
of our fiscal 2012 year, on April 2, 2012, and June 11, 2012 we completed private placement financing transactions with two
investors pursuant to securities purchase agreements, pursuant to which we issued an aggregate of three 10% convertible notes in
the aggregate principal amount of $2.0 million and 2,000,000 shares of our common stock, and received gross proceeds of $2.0 million,
excluding transaction costs and expenses. At June 13, 2012, we had approximately $1.1 million in cash and cash equivalents. Continued
operations are dependent on our ability to complete other equity or debt funding transactions. Given the recent downturn in the
economy, such capital formation activities may not be available or may not be available on reasonable terms. If we do not obtain
additional equity or debt funding in the near future, our cash resources will rapidly be depleted and we will be required to materially
reduce or suspend operations, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships
with third parties with whom we have business relationships, at least until additional funding is obtained.


45
 

 
The above conditions raise substantial
doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements included elsewhere herein for the year ended March 31,
2012, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern, which contemplates the realization
of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities during the normal course of business. In preparing these consolidated financial statements,
consideration was given to our future business as described elsewhere herein, which may preclude us from realizing the value of
certain assets. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. This
basis of accounting contemplates the recovery of our assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business.
Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, sales or out-licenses of intellectual property or technologies,
or from a business combination or a similar transaction, we will soon exhaust our resources and will be unable to continue operations.
If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment in us.
Our management intends to address any
shortfall of working capital by attempting to secure additional funding through equity or debt financings, sales or out-licensing
of intellectual property assets, seeking partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or third parties to co-develop and fund
research and development efforts, or similar transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any
sources of funding. If we are unsuccessful in securing funding from any of these sources, we will defer, reduce or eliminate certain
planned expenditures. There is no assurance that any of the above options will be implemented on a timely basis or that we will
be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms,
we could be required to delay development or commercialization of some or all of our products, to license to third parties the
rights to commercialize certain products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize internally, or to reduce resources
devoted to product development. In addition, one or more licensors of patents and intellectual property rights that we have in-licensed
could seek to terminate our license agreements, if our lack of funding made us unable to comply with the provisions of those agreements.
If we did not have sufficient funds to continue operations, we could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives
that could result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts
about our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative relationships with
business partners, make it more difficult to obtain required financing on favorable terms or at all, negatively affect the market
price of our common stock and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.
Funding that we may receive during fiscal
2013 is expected to be used to satisfy existing obligations and liabilities and working capital needs, to begin building working
capital reserves and to fund a number of projects, which may include some or all of the following:


 
●
continue development of the generic nasal steroid product candidate;

 
●
pursue the development of other product candidates that we may develop or acquire;

 
●
fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals;

 
●
expand research and development activities;

 
●
access manufacturing and commercialization capabilities;

 
●
implement additional internal systems and infrastructure;

 
●
maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property portfolio; and

 
●
hire additional management, sales, research, development and clinical personnel.

 
Results of Operations
Our consolidated results of operations
are presented for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012 and for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2011.
Year Ended March 31, 2012 and Year Ended March 31,
2011
Selling, General and
Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were approximately $2.90
million and $3.37 million, respectively. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of legal fees,
accounting and audit fees, professional fees and employee salaries. The decrease in selling, general and administrative
expenses was primarily due to a reduction in legal, accounting and consulting expenses during the twelve months ended
March 31, 2012.

 


46
 

 
Research and Development
Expenses. Our research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and
services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research
and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $1.9 million and $2.9 million for
the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which were expensed. The decrease in research and
development expenses for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily due to the expenses in fiscal 2011 relating to the
acquisition of the APC technology. Partially offsetting the reduction were increases in expenses associated with the
development of APC-100, 200, 300 and Telomerase technologies.
Other Income (Expenses). Interest
and other income (expense) for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were $(30,093) and $(738,731), respectively. Interest and other income (expense)
consist primarily of interest expense paid in connection with various notes payable and the amortization of related discounts.
The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2012, in comparison to fiscal 2011 was due to the payment or conversion of the Gemini
notes and the G-Max notes effective June 30, 2011.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We have incurred net losses of approximately
$4.9 million and $7.0 million for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Since our inception, June 6, 2006,
and through March 31, 2012, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $30.8 million. Since inception and through March 31,
2012, we have financed our operations principally through debt financing and through private issuances of common stock. Since inception,
we have raised a total of approximately $19. 6 million in debt and equity financing transactions, consisting of approximately $6.3
million in debt financing and approximately $13.3 million in equity financing transactions. We expect to finance future cash needs
primarily through proceeds from equity or debt financings, loans, sales of assets, out-licensing transactions, and/or collaborative
agreements with corporate partners. We have used the net proceeds from debt and equity financings for general corporate purposes,
which have included funding for research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, working capital, reducing
indebtedness, pursuing and completing acquisitions or investments in other businesses, products or technologies, and for capital
expenditures.
Our
cash was approximately $7,500 and $1.2 million as of March 31,
2012 and March 31, 2011, respectively, and we had no outstanding accounts receivable at March 31, 2012. The decrease
in cash compared to the end of fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of less cash received from the sale of common stock and repayment
of notes payable during fiscal 2012, less cash received from sale of common stock from the Investor pursuant to payments relating
to the first milestone conditions under the Purchase Agreement.
Net cash used in operating activities
from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were approximately $3.3 million and $4.3 million, respectively. The decrease
in the use of cash was due primarily to an increase in accounts payable and a decrease in the investment in new technologies, consulting
expenses and the amortization of discounts. We expect net cash used in operating activities to increase going forward as we continue
product development and other business activities, assuming that we are able to obtain sufficient funding. The increase in accounts
payable from approximately $1.3 million at March 31, 2011, to $2.0 million at March 31, 2012, related primarily to the
lack of adequate funding.
Net cash provided by financing
activities from continuing operations was approximately $2.1 million in fiscal 2012 and approximately $5.1 million in fiscal
2011. Results for fiscal 2012, were affected by the retirement of the remaining Gemini notes and less cash received from sale
of common stock. Results for fiscal 2011, were affected by the retirement of notes payable to related parties and cash
received for sale of common stock.
As of March 31, 2012, we had outstanding
a total of 13 secured promissory notes to Dennis J. Carlo, President and Chief Executive Officer of Adamis, in the aggregate outstanding
principal amount of $105,632, reflecting loans made by Dr. Carlo to Adamis. Each of these notes bears interest at an annual
rate of 10% and the total outstanding balance remain under these loan agreements.
 


47
 

 
On December 29, 2009, we issued
to a single investor an unsecured convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $500,000 and also issued 500,000 shares
of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $500,000. Interest on the outstanding principal balance of the
note accrued at a rate of 10% per annum compounded monthly and was payable monthly. As amended, the maturity date of the note
was June 30, 2011. In June 2011, the holder of the note elected to convert all principal of the note into shares of our common
stock at the conversion price stated in the note of $0.20 per share.
 
In January 2010, we completed a private
placement financing transaction with a small number of institutional investors led by Gemini Master Fund, Ltd. (“Gemini”),
pursuant to a securities purchase agreement. We issued 10% Senior Secured Convertible Notes, referred to as the Secured Notes,
in the aggregate principal amount of $1.5 million and 1,500,000 shares of our common stock, and received gross proceeds of $1.5
million. Interest on the Secured Notes was payable monthly at a rate of 10% per annum. As amended, principal and any accrued and
unpaid interest was due and payable June 30, 2011. The Secured Notes were convertible into shares of common stock at any time
at the discretion of the investor at an initial conversion price per share of $0.20. Effective June 30, 2011, we paid in full
the unconverted $345,000 outstanding principal amount of the Secured Notes and related accrued interest, and there are no longer
any outstanding Secured Notes.
On
November 10, 2010, we completed a private placement transaction with Eses Holdings (FZE), a foreign investor (the
“Purchaser”), pursuant to a Common Stock Purchase Agreement and a registration rights agreement. The purchase
agreement provided for the sale of up to 40 million shares of our common stock to the Purchaser at a price of $0.25 per
share, for up to $10 million of gross proceeds. An initial closing was held on November 10, 2010, pursuant to which we
received $5 million in gross proceeds and issued 20 million shares of common stock. The purchase agreement provided for two
potential subsequent closings pursuant to which the Purchaser agreed to invest $2.5 million at each such closing if the
milestones relating to that milestone closing had been achieved before the outside date specified for that milestone. We
achieved the first set of milestone conditions and provided notice to the Purchaser in May 2011. Pursuant
to a first amendment to the purchase agreement, the Purchaser agreed that we had satisfied the first set of milestone
conditions. The Purchaser and we agreed that the $2.5 million investment for the first milestone closing would be paid as
follows: $550,000 on or before June 27, 2011; $550,000 on or before July 21, 2011; and $1.4 million on or
before September 29, 2011. We received both of the $550,000 payments from the Investor and issued a total of 4,400,000
shares of common stock to the Investor. The
Purchaser also agreed to extend the outside date for achievement of the second set of milestones to December 31,
2011.
Pursuant to a second amendment to the
purchase agreement, on November 10, 2011, we received $700,000 of the remaining payments from the Purchaser relating to the
first set of milestone conditions in the purchase agreement, and the Purchaser agreed to extend the milestone closing outside date
for achievement of the second set of milestones to March 31, 2012. Pursuant to a third amendment to the purchase agreement dated
January 31, 2012, on January 31, 2012, February 13, 2012, and February 29, 2012, we received an additional $375,000,
$125,000 and $200,000, respectively, from the Purchaser relating to our satisfaction of those milestone conditions, and we issued
a total of 2,800,000 shares of common stock to the Purchaser. Despite the delays in the receipt of funding from the Purchaser following
our satisfaction of the first set of milestone conditions, we completed four of the five specified conditions for satisfaction
of the second milestone conditions prior to the milestone closing outside date. However, because of the delays in receipt of funding
relating to the first set of milestones, we were not able to complete the remaining milestone condition before the March 31,
2012 outside date. The purchase agreement provided that either party may terminate the Agreement if a milestone closing had not
been consummated by applicable date, as long as the terminating party’s failure to fulfill or diligently pursue fulfillment
of any of that party’s material obligations under the purchase agreement was not a principal cause of or did not result in
the failure of the milestone closing to occur on or before the applicable date. Accordingly, on May 1, 2012, we exercised
our option to terminate the purchase agreement by sending notice to the Purchaser. Termination of the purchase agreement means
that Purchaser will no longer have the option to purchase the remaining 10 million shares of stock at $0.25 per share. Certain
provisions of the purchase agreement survive termination, including the Purchaser’s right to have an observer attend meetings
of the board of directors and to receive certain materials that are provided to the directors in connection with such meetings.
 
After the end of our fiscal 2012 year,
on April 2, 2012, we completed the closing of a private placement financing transaction with Gemini pursuant to a securities
purchase agreement. We issued a 10% Senior Convertible Note (the “Gemini Note”) in the aggregate principal amount
of $1.0 million and 1,000,000 shares of our common stock, and received gross proceeds of $1.0 million, excluding transaction costs
and expenses. Interest on the Gemini Note is payable at a rate of 10% per annum and is payable on the maturity date of the Gemini
Note.


48
 

 
Principal and accrued and unpaid
interest is due and payable nine months after the date of the Gemini Note. The Gemini Note is convertible into shares of common
stock at any time at the discretion of the investor at an initial conversion price per share of $0.25, subject to adjustment for
stock splits, stock dividends and other similar transactions and subject to the terms of the Gemini Note. The conversion price
is also subject to price anti-dilution adjustments providing that with the exception of certain excluded categories of issuances
and transactions, if we issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities at an effective price per share
less than the conversion price of the Gemini Note, the conversion price of the Gemini Note will be adjusted downward to equal
the per share price of the new securities. Our obligations under the Gemini Note and the other transaction agreements are guaranteed
by our principal subsidiaries, including Adamis Corporation, Adamis Laboratories, Inc. and Adamis Viral, Inc.
 
The transaction agreements include restrictions
on our ability to engage in certain kinds of transactions while the Gemini Note is outstanding without the consent of the investor,
including incurring or paying certain kinds of indebtedness, entering into certain kinds of financing transactions, or encumbering
our assets (subject to certain exceptions). The transaction documents include a variety of liquidated damages, penalties and default
provisions upon events of default by Adamis, including without limitation an increase in the principal amount and interest rate
and a potential decrease in the conversion price of the Gemini Note, and in connection with certain other breaches of covenants
of Adamis. If the shares underlying the Gemini Note are not freely tradable under SEC Rule 144 after six months from the closing
of the Gemini Note transaction, we intend to file a registration statement covering the resale of such shares.
On June 11, 2012, we completed the closing
of a private placement financing transaction with Gemini. We issued a 10% Senior Convertible Note in the aggregate principal amount
of $500,000 and 500,000 shares of common stock, and received gross proceeds of $500,000, excluding transaction costs and expenses.
The maturity date is nine months after the date of the note. The other materials terms and conditions are similar to the Gemini
Note described above, except that the initial conversion price per share is $0.55.
On June 11, 2012, we issued a convertible promissory
note in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 and 500,000 shares of common stock to The G-Max Trust, and received gross proceeds
of approximately $500,000, excluding transaction costs and expenses. Interest on the outstanding principal balance of the note
accrues at a rate of 10% per annum compounded monthly and is payable monthly commencing July 1, 2012. All unpaid principal and
interest on the note is due and payable on April 1, 2013. At any time on or before the maturity date, the investor has the right
to convert part or all of the principal and interest owed under the note into common stock at a conversion price equal to $0.55
per share (subject to adjustment for stock dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits, reclassifications or other similar events
affecting the number of outstanding shares of common stock).
 
As noted above under the heading “Going
Concern and Management’s Plan,” at March 31, 2012, Adamis had substantial liabilities and obligations, and at March
31, 2012 and June 13, 2012, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $7,500 and $1million, respectively. The availability
of any required additional funding cannot be assured. If do not obtain additional equity or debt funding in the near future, our
cash resources will rapidly be depleted and we will be required to materially reduce or suspend operations. Even if are successful
in obtaining additional funding to permit us to continue operations at the levels that we desire, substantial time will pass before
we obtain regulatory marketing approval for any products and begin to realize revenues from product sales, and during this period
Adamis will require additional funds. Consequently, even if we successfully obtain additional funding in the near future, Adamis
is subject to the risks associated with early stage companies, including the need for additional financings; the uncertainty of
research and development efforts resulting in successful commercial products, as well as the marketing and customer acceptance
of such products; unexpected issues with the FDA or other federal or state regulatory authorities; competition from larger organizations;
reliance on the proprietary technology of others; dependence on key personnel; uncertain patent protection; and dependence on corporate
partners and collaborators. No assurance can be given as to the timing or ultimate success of obtaining future funding.


49
 

 
Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates
The discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations are based on our audited financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make
estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience
and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
We believe the following accounting policies
and estimates are most critical to aid you in understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. For further discussion
of our accounting policies, see Note 3 in the accompanying notes to our financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
Stock-Based Compensation. We account
for stock-based compensation transactions in which we receive employee services in exchange for options to purchase common stock.
Stock-based compensation cost for restricted stock units (“RSUs”) is measured based on the closing fair market value
of our common stock on the date of grant. Stock-based compensation cost for stock options is estimated at the grant date based
on each option’s fair-value as calculated by the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. We recognize stock-based compensation
cost as expense ratably on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
At March 31, 2012, we did not have
any off balance sheet arrangements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 3 in the accompanying notes
to our financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 8:FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The financial statements and financial
information required by Item 8 are set forth below commencing on page F-1.

ITEM 9:CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

None.

ITEM 9A:CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
In connection with the preparation of
this annual report on Form 10-K, an evaluation was carried out by our management, with the participation of the Principal Executive
Officer and Accounting Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15( e)
and 15d-15( e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2012. Disclosure controls and
procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act
is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms and that such information
is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Principal Executive Officer and Accounting Officer, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosures.
Based on their evaluation, our Principal
Executive Officer and Accounting Officer concluded that disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31,
2012, for reasons described below.


50
 

 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on our internal
control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) in the Exchange Act), is included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the heading “Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting”
and is incorporated herein by reference. This report shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange
Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically state that the report is to be considered “filed”
under the Exchange Act or incorporate it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the
Exchange Act.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule
13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, a company’s
principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by a company’s board of directors, management and other
personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:


 
●
Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

 
●
Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and

 
●
Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

 
All internal control systems, no matter
how well designed, have inherent limitations and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and
the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems,
no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company
have been detected.
Our management assessed the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012. In making this assessment, our management used the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control - Integrated
Framework and Internal Control over Financial Reporting-Guidance for Smaller Public Companies. As a result of this assessment,
management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting.
A material weakness is a deficiency,
or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that
a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
We identified a material weakness in
our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012, based on the absence of finance and accounting personnel
other than the Chief Financial Officer. This resulted in not ensuring appropriate segregation of duties between incompatible functions,
and made it more difficult to ensure review of financial reporting issues sufficiently in advance of the dates on which filings
are required to be made with the Securities and Exchange Commission and to ensure that financial information (both routine and
non-routine) is adequately analyzed and reviewed on a timely basis to detect misstatements. These above deficiencies represent
a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting given that they result in a reasonable possibility that a
material misstatement to the annual or interim financial statements would not have been prevented or detected.


51
 


Based on the material weakness described
above, management has concluded that as of March 31, 2012 our internal control over financial reporting were not effective.
We intend to address the weaknesses identified
above by increasing the oversight and review procedures of the board of directors with regard to financial reporting, financial
processes and procedures and internal control procedures; where possible preparing and reviewing SEC filings farther in advance
of required filing dates; and when funding is available considering the addition of finance and accounting personnel.
This annual report does not include an
attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s
report was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to rules that permit us to provide only
management’s report in this annual report.
Changes in Internal Controls
There has been no change in our internal
control over financial reporting that occurred, during the quarter ended March 31, 2012, that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B:OTHER INFORMATION

Not Applicable.


52
 


PART III

ITEM 10:DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by Item 10 of
Part III is incorporated by reference to the registrant’s proxy statement, to be filed within 120 days of the registrant’s
fiscal year end, or will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 11:EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 11 of
Part III is incorporated by reference to the registrant’s proxy statement, to be filed within 120 days of the registrant’s
fiscal year end, or will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 12:SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by Item 12 of
Part III is incorporated by reference to the registrant’s proxy statement, to be filed within 120 days of the registrant’s
fiscal year end, or will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 13:CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by Item 13 of
Part III is incorporated by reference to the registrant’s proxy statement, to be filed within 120 days of the registrant’s
fiscal year end, or will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 14:PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by Item 14 of
Part III is incorporated by reference to the registrant’s proxy statement, to be filed within 120 days of the registrant’s
fiscal year end, or will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K.


53
 


PART IV

ITEM 15:EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Exhibits
The following exhibits are attached hereto
or incorporated herein by reference.
  


 
 
 
 
 
Incorporated by Reference

Exhibit Number
 Exhibit Description
 
 Filed Herewith
 
 Form/File No.
 
Date 

2.1
Agreement and Plan of Share Exchange dated as of October 7, 2004, by and between the Company and Biosyn, Inc.
 
 
 
8-K
 
10/26/04

3.1
Certificate of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
 
 
 
8-K
 
04/03/09

3.2
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
 
 
 
8-K
 
04/03/09

3.3
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

4.1
Specimen stock certificate for common stock
 
 
 
8-K
 
04/03/09

*10.1
1995 Equity Incentive Plan
 
 
 
10-Q
 
08/13/02

*10.2
2005 Equity Incentive Plan
 
 
 
10-K
 
03/31/06

*10.3
Form of Option Agreement under the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan
 
 
 
10-K
 
03/31/06

*10.4
2009 Equity Incentive Plan
 
 
 
8-K
 
01/13/11

*10.5
Form of Stock Option Agreement for option awards
 
 
 
8-K
 
09/16/11

*10.6
Form of Indemnity Agreement with directors and executive officers
 
 
 
8-K
 
01/13/11

10.7
Agreement dated as of October 8, 1996 by and among Biosyn, Inc., Edwin B.  Michaels and E.B.  Michaels Research Associates, Inc.  (Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to portions of this agreement.)
 
 
 
10-K
 
03/31/05

10.8
Patent License Agreement by and among Biosyn, Inc., and certain agencies of the United States Public Health Service
 
 
 
10-K
 
03/31/05

10.9
License Agreement dated as of May 22, 2001, by and between Crompton Corporation and Biosyn, Inc.  (Confidential treatment has been requested for portions of this agreement.)
 
 
 
10-K
 
03/31/05

10.10
License Agreement dated January 30, 2006, by and between CONRAD, Eastern Virginia Medical School, and Biosyn, Inc.  (Confidential treatment has been requested for portions of this agreement.)
 
 
 
10-K
 
04/02/07

10.11
Amendment to License Agreement dated as of March 15, 2006, by and between Crompton Corporation and Biosyn, Inc.
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

10.12
Funding Agreement dated October 12, 1992, by and between Ben Franklin Technology Center of Southeastern Pennsylvania and Biosyn, Inc.
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

10.13
License Agreement dated July 28, 2006, by and between Nevagen, LLC and Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

10.14
Amendment to License Agreement dated December 29, 2008, by and between Nevagen, LLC and Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

*10.15
Stock Repurchase Agreement dated November 3, 2008, by and between Dennis J. Carlo and Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

 

54
 

  


 
 
 
 
 
Incorporated by Reference

Exhibit Number
 Exhibit Description
 
 Filed Herewith
 
 Form/File No.
 
Date 

*10.16
Stock Repurchase Agreement dated November 3, 2008, by and between Robert Hopkins and Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

*10.17
Stock Repurchase Agreement dated November 3, 2008, by and between David J. Marguglio and Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

10.18
Amendment to License Agreement dated October 18, 2007, by and between CONRAD, Eastern Virginia Medical School, and Biosyn, Inc.
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

10.19
Amendment to Lease Agreement dated October 30, 2007, by and between HRM II Ltd and Healthcare Ventures Group
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

10.20
Clinical Trial Agreement between Biosyn, Inc. and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
 
 
 

S-4/A
333-155322
 
01/12/09

10.21
Securities Purchase Agreement dated January 11, 2010 between the Registrant and the investors listed therein
 
 
 
8-K
 
01/14/10

10.22
Form of 10% Senior Secured Convertible Note dated January 11, 2010
 
 
 
8-K
 
01/14/10

10.23
Form of Security Agreement dated January 11, 2010
 
 
 
8-K
 
01/14/10

10.24
Assignment, Assumption and Stock Acquisition Agreement dated February 24, 2010 between the Registrant and Colby Pharmaceutical Company
 
 
 
10-K
 
07/14/10

10.25
Amendment to Assignment, Assumption and Stock Acquisition Agreement dated as of October 16, 2010, between the Registrant and Colby Pharmaceutical Company
 
 
 
8-K
 
10/19/10

10.26
Form of Amendment to 10% Senior Secured Convertible Notes
 
 
 
8-K
 
04/04/11

10.27
Amendment to G-Max Convertible Promissory Note
 
 
 
8-K
 
04/04/11

10.28
Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 10, 2010, by and between Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation and the Purchaser named therein  (Confidential treatment has been granted for portions of this exhibit.)
 
 
 
8-K
 
11/12/10

10.29
Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 10, 2010, by and between Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation and the Purchaser named therein
 
 
 
8-K
 
11/12/10

10.30
Employment Agreement between the Company and Dennis J. Carlo*
 
 
 
8-K
 
11/12/10

10.31
Employment Agreement between the Company and David J. Marguglio*
 
 
 
8-K
 
11/12/10

10.32
Employment Agreement between the Company and Robert O. Hopkins*
 
 
 
8-K
 
11/12/10

10.33
Employment Agreement between the Company and Richard L. Aloi*
 
 
 
8-K
 
11/12/10

10.34
Form of Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors*
 
 
 
8-K
 
01/13/11

10.35
Product Development and Contract Manufacturing Agreement dated November 1, 2010, between Adamis and Beximco
 
 
 
10-Q
 
02/14/11

10.36
License Agreement between Adamis, the Regents of the University of California and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Inc.
 
 
 
10-K
 
07/07/11

10.37
License Agreement dated January 26, 2007, with Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation
 
 
 
10-K
 
07/07/11

10.38
License Agreement dated January 26, 2007, with Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation
 
 
 
10-K
 
07/07/11

10.39
License Agreement dated January 2, 2008, with Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation
 
 
 
10-K
 
07/07/11

 


55
 

 


 
 
 
 
 
Incorporated by Reference

Exhibit Number
 Exhibit Description
 
 Filed Herewith
 
 Form/File No.
 
Date 

10.40
First Amendment to Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of June 30, 2011, by and between the Company and Eses Holdings (FZE)
 
 
 
10-K
 
07/07/11

10.41
Second Amendment to Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 10, 2011, by and between the Company and Eses Holdings (FZE)
 
 
 
8-K
 
11/21/11

10.42
Third Amendment to Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of January 31, 2012, by and between the Company and Eses Holdings (FZE)
 
 
 
10-Q
 
02/14/12

10.43
Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of April 2, 2012
 
 
 
8-K
 
04/05/12

10.44
10% Senior Convertible Note dated as of April 2, 2012
 
 
 
8-K
 
04/05/12

10.45
Form of Subsidiary Guarantee dated as of April 2, 2012
 
 
 
8-K
 
04/05/12


10.46
10.47
10.48
10.49

Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of June 11, 2012
10% Senior Convertible Note dated as of June 11, 2012
Form of Subsidiary Guarantee dated as of June 11, 2012
Convertible Promissory Note dated as of June 11, 2012
 
 







8-K
8-K
8-K
8-K
 
 

06/15/12
06/15/12
06/15/12
06/15/12
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

21.1
Subsidiaries of the Registrant
 


10-K
 
07/07/11 

23.1
Consent of Mayer Hoffman McCann PC, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 X


 


24.1
Power of Attorney  (See signature page)
 
 X

 
 
 

31.1
Certification by CEO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
 
 X

 
 
 

31.2
Certification by CFO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
 
 X

 
 
 

32.1
Certification by CEO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
 
 X

 
 
 

32.2
Certification by CFO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
 
 X

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

101.INS
XBRL Instance Document
 
 
 
 
 
 

101.SCH
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
 
 
 
 
 
 

101.CAL
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
 
 
 
 
 
 

101.DEF
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
 
 
 
 
 
 

101.LAB
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
 
 
 
 
 
 

101.PRE
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 * Represents a compensatory plan or arrangement.


56
 


SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of San Diego, State of California.


 
ADAMIS PHARMCEUTICALS CORPORATION
 

 
 
 
 

 
By: 
/s/  DENNIS J. CARLO
 

 

Dennis J. Carlo
Chief Executive Officer
 

Dated:  June 29, 2012 
 
 

Power of Attorney
Each person whose signature appears below
constitutes and appoints each of Dennis J. Carlo and Robert O. Hopkins, true and lawful attorney-in-fact, with the power of
substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same,
with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying
and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


Name
 
Title
 
Date

Principal Executive Officer:
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ DENNIS J. CARLO
 
Chief Executive Officer and Director
 
June 29, 2012

Dennis J. Carlo
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Principal Financial Officer
 
 
 
 

and Principal Accounting Officer:
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ ROBERT O. HOPKINS
 
Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary
 
June 29, 2012

Robert O. Hopkins
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Directors:
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ DAVID J. MARGUGLIO
 
Director
 
June 29, 2012

David J. Marguglio
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ KENNETH M. COHEN
 
Director
 
June 29, 2012

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ TINA S. NOVA, Ph.D.
 
Director
 
June 29, 2012

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ CRAIG A. JOHNSON
 
Director
 
June 29, 2012

 

57
 

 
ADAMIS PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MARCH 31, 2012 AND 2011


 
 
PAGE

 
 
 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM MAYER HOFFMAN MCCANN P.C.
 
F-1

 
 
 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
 
 

 
 
 

Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
F-2

 
 
 

Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
F-3

 
 
 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)
 
F-4

 
 
 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
F-5 - F-6

 
 
 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
F-7 - F-22

 

58
 

 
Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of
Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation
and Subsidiaries
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation and Subsidiaries as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related statements
of operations, stockholders' equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended March 31, 2012. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free
of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such
opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation
and Subsidiaries as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years
in the two year period ended March 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
 
The accompanying consolidated
financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to
the consolidated financial statements, the Company has incurred recurring losses from operations and has limited working
capital to pursue its business alternatives. Management’s plans with regard to these matters are also described in Note
2. In addition, as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company is party to litigation the
outcome of which is not presently determinable. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to
continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the
outcome of these uncertainties.
 


 

/s/ Mayer Hoffman McCann P.C.

 
 
 

 
 

MAYER HOFFMAN MCCANN P.C.
Certified Public Accountants

Boca Raton, Florida
June 29, 2012


F-1
 

 

 

ADAMIS
PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS
 


ASSETS 
March 31, 2012  
March 31, 2011 

  
   
  

CURRENT ASSETS 
    
   

Cash 
$7,519  
$1,238,898 

Prepaid Expenses and Other
    Current Assets 
 31,520  
 294,710 

  
    
   

Total Current Assets 
 39,039  
 1,533,608 

  
    
   

ASSETS FROM DISCONTINUED
    OPERATIONS 
 130,000  
 200,000 

  
    
   

Total
    Assets 
$169,039  
$1,733,608 

  
    
   

LIABILITIES
    AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) 
    
   

  
    
   

CURRENT LIABILITIES 
    
   

Accounts Payable 
$2,020,713  
$1,263,199 

Accrued Other Expenses 
 469,279  
 391,666 

Accrued Bonuses 
 101,436  
 101,436 

Notes Payable 
 195,608  
 1,255,741 

Notes Payable to Related
    Parties 
 105,632  
 101,232 

  
    
   

Total Liabilities 
 2,892,668  
 3,113,274 

  
    
   

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
    
   

  
    
   

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) 
    
   

Preferred Stock –
    Par Value $.0001; 10,000,000 Shares Authorized; Issued and Outstanding-None 
 —  
 — 

Common Stock – Par
    Value $.0001; 175,000,000 Shares Authorized; 101,161,953 and 86,818,532 Issued, 95,933,765 and 81,590,344 Outstanding, Respectively 
 10,116  
 8,682 

Additional Paid-in Capital 
 28,053,816  
 24,483,918 

Accumulated Deficit 
 (30,782,332) 
 (25,867,037)

Treasury Stock - 5,228,188 Shares, at cost 
 (5,229) 
 (5,229)

  
    
   

Total Stockholders’ (Deficit) 
 (2,723,629) 
 (1,379,666)

  
    
   

  
$169,039  
$1,733,608 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these Consolidated Financial Statements
 

F-2
 

 
ADAMIS PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 



  
Year Ended
    March 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

REVENUE 
$—  
$— 

  
    
   

SELLING,
    GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
 2,901,077  
 3,365,198 

RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT 
 1,914,125  
 2,875,884 

  
    
   

Loss
    from Operations 
 (4,815,202) 
 (6,241,082)

  
    
   

OTHER
    INCOME (EXPENSE) 
    
   

Interest
    Expense 
 (35,390) 
 (744,331)

Gain
    on Sale of Asset 
 5,297  
 5,600 

  
 (30,093) 
 (738,731)

  
    
   

Net
    (Loss) from Continuing Operations 
 (4,845,295) 
 (6,979,813)

  
    
   

DISCONTINUED
    OPERATIONS 
    
   

  
    
   

Write-down
    of Discontinued Operations Receivable 
 (70,000) 
 — 

  
    
   

Net
    (Loss) from Discontinued Operations 
 (70,000) 
 — 

  
    
   

Net
    (Loss) 
$(4,915,295) 
$(6,979,813)

  
    
   

Basic
    and Diluted (Loss) Per Share: 
    
   

  
    
   

Basic
    and Diluted (Loss) Per Share from Continuing Operations 
$(0.06) 
$(0.11)

  
    
   

Basic
    and Diluted (Loss) Per Share from Discontinued Operations 
$(0.00) 
$(0.00)

  
    
   

Basic
    and Diluted (Loss) Per Share 
$(0.06) 
$(0.11)

  
    
   

Basic
    and Diluted Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 
 89,477,725  
 63,786,446 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements
 

F-3
 

 
ADAMIS
PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) 
 


  
Common Stock  
 Additional  
Treasury Stock  
  
 

  
Shares  
Amount  
 Paid-In Capital  
Shares  
Amount  
Accumulated
Deficit  
 Total 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance March 31, 2010 
 50,149,639  
$5,015  
$14,609,235  
 (1,101,686) 
$(1,102) 
$(18,887,224) 
$(4,274,076)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Issuance of Common Stock for Consulting Agreements 
 5,900,000  
 590  
 1,264,410  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 1,265,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common Stock Issued for Note Conversions 
 4,188,893  
 419  
 837,358  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 837,777 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Purchase of Treasury Stock 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 (4,126,502) 
 (4,127) 
 —  
 (4,127)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common Stock Issued for Cash at .25 per share 
 21,580,000  
 2,158  
 5,356,178  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 5,358,336 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Issuance of Common Stock for Licensing Agreement 
 5,000,000  
 500  
 1,214,500  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 1,215,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Share Based Compensation 
 —  
 —  
 1,202,237  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 1,202,237 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net (Loss) 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 (6,979,813) 
 (6,979,813)

Balance March 31, 2011 
 86,818,532  
 8,682  
 24,483,918  
 (5,228,188) 
 (5,229) 
 (25,867,037) 
 (1,379,666)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common Stock Issued for Note Conversions 
 4,093,101  
 409  
 818,210  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 818,619 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common Stock Issued for Cash at .25 per share 
 10,000,320  
 1,000  
 2,499,080  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 2,500,080 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common Stock Issued for Services 
 250,000  
 25  
 59,975  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 60,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Warrants Issued for Services 
 —  
 —  
 21,000  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 21,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Share Based Compensation 
 —  
 —  
 171,633  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 171,633 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net (Loss) 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 (4,915,295) 
 (4,915,295)

Balance March 31, 2012 
 101,161,953  
$10,116  
$28,053,816  
 (5,228,188) 
$(5,229) 
$(30,782,332) 
$(2,723,629)

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated
Financial Statements
 


F-4
 

 
ADAMIS
PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 



  
Year Ended March 31, 

 
2012  
2011 

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING
    ACTIVITIES  
   
  

Net (Loss) 
$(4,915,295) 
$(6,979,813)

Adjustments
    to Reconcile Net Loss to Net Cash (Used in) Operating
    Activities: 
    
   

Depreciation Expense 
 —  
 14,648 

Stock Issued for Interest 
 621  
 777 

Stock Issued for Research
    & Development Services 
 —  
 1,215,000 

Reduction of Compensation
    Upon Forgiveness of Accrued Bonus 
 —  
 (129,977)

Consulting Expense Paid
    in Common Stock 
 —  
 597,500 

Stock-Based Compensation
    Expense 
 171,633  
 100,214 

Vesting of Options for
    Compensation 
 —  
 33,237 

Amortization of Discounts 
 —  
 527,369 

Inventory Reserve Adjustment 
 —  
 (222,878)

Amortization of Stock 
    Issued for Services 
 364,884  
 384,612 

Sales Returns Reserve Adjustment 
 (13,151) 
 328,076 

Write-down of Discontinued
    Operations Receivable 
 70,000  
 — 

Change in Assets and Liabilities: 
    
   

(Increase) Decrease in: 
    
   

Accounts Receivable 
 —  
 5,555 

Inventory 
 —  
 225,587 

Prepaid Expenses and Other
    Current Assets 
 (20,694) 
 1,201 

Increase (Decrease) in: 
    
   

Accounts Payable 
 757,515  
 (297,113)

Accrued Other Expenses 
 238,628  
 (111,272)

  
    
   

Net Cash (Used in) Operating
    Activities 
 (3,345,859) 
 (4,307,277)

  
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING
    ACTIVITIES 
    
   

Net Cash Provided by Investing
    Activities from Discontinued Operations 
 —  
 150,000 

Net Cash Provided by Investing
    Activities 
 —  
 150,000 

  
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING
    ACTIVITIES 
    
   

Cash Received from Sale
    of Common Stock 
 2,500,080  
 5,358,336 

Cash Received from Related
    Parties Notes Payable 
 4,400  
 — 

Payment of Notes Payable 
 (390,000) 
 (40,000) 

Payment of Notes Payable
    to Related Parties 
 —  
 (208,333)

Purchase of Treasury Stock 
 —  
 (4,127)

  
    
   

Net Cash Provided by Financing
    Activities 
 2,114,480  
 5,105,876 

  
    
   

Increase (Decrease) in
    Cash 
 (1,231,379) 
 948,599 

Cash: 
    
   

Beginning 
 1,238,898  
 290,299 

  
    
   

Ending 
$7,519  
$1,238,898 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements


 


F-5
 

  
ADAMIS PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 


  
Year Ended March 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION 
    
   

  
    
   

Cash Paid for Interest 
$33,859  
$183,871 

  
    
   

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NON-CASH FINANCING AND
    INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
    
   

 
    
   

Warrants Issued for Prepaid Services 
$21,000  
$— 

Common Stock issued for Prepaid Services 
$60,000  
$— 

Notes Payable Converted to Common Stock 
$818,000  
$837,000 

Common Stock issued for Interest 
$621  
$777 

Stock Based Compensation Expense 
$171,633  
$133,450 

Accrued Bonuses Converted to Paid-in Capital 
$—  
$1,068,786 

Stock Issued for Consulting Services 
$—  
$1,265,000 

Stock Issued for Research & Development Services 
$—  
$1,215,000 

Conversion of Sales Return
    Liability to Notes Payable 
$147,866  
$132,741 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated
Financial Statements
 


F-6
 

 

NOTE 1:NATURE OF BUSINESS

 
The company formerly named Adamis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation, or Old Adamis, was founded in June 2006 as a Delaware corporation. Effective April 1, 2009, Old Adamis completed
a business combination transaction with Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Cellegy. Before the merger, Cellegy was a public company
and Old Adamis was a private company. In connection with the consummation of the merger and pursuant to the terms of the definitive
merger agreement relating to the transaction, Cellegy was the surviving corporation in the merger and changed its name from Cellegy
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (the “Company, “Adamis Pharmaceuticals,” “Adamis,”
“we” or “our”), and Old Adamis survived as a wholly-owned subsidiary and changed its corporate name to
Adamis Corporation.The Company has three wholly-owned subsidiaries: Adamis Corporation; Biosyn, Inc., which has rights to the C31G
product; and Cellegy Holdings, Inc. Adamis Corporation has two wholly-owned subsidiaries: Adamis Viral Therapies, Inc., or Adamis
Viral, which was formed to focus on the Company’s cancer and vaccine technologies; and Adamis Laboratories, Inc., or Adamis
Labs, which was formed to focus on the Company’s allergy and respiratory products.
The Company’s general business strategy
is to generate revenue through launch of its allergy and respiratory products in development, in order to generate cash flow to
help fund expansion of its allergy and respiratory business, as well as support its future cancer and vaccine product development
efforts.
  

NOTE 2:GOING CONCERN

The Company's consolidated financial statements are prepared using
the generally accepted accounting principles applicable to a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation
of liabilities in the normal course of business. However, as shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company
has sustained substantial losses from continuing operations and has not introduced new revenue producing products since inception.
In addition, the Company has used, rather than provided, cash in its continuing operations. Without realization of additional capital,
it would be unlikely for the Company to continue as a going concern. It is management's plan in this regard to obtain additional
working capital through debt and equity financings.
 
The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments
relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary
should the Company be unable to continue in existence.
  

NOTE 3:SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  
Principles of Consolidation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include Adamis
Pharmaceuticals and its wholly-owned operating subsidiaries. All significant intra-entity balances and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation.
 
Accounting Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and the differences could be material.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company
considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities at the date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 


F-7
 

  
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
 
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, including
cash, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due to their short-term nature.
The Company’s notes payable approximate fair value based upon current rates available to the Company for loans with similar
maturities.
 
Long-Lived Assets
 
The Company periodically assesses whether there has been permanent
impairment of its long-lived assets held and used whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by comparison of the carrying amount
of the asset to future net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the use and eventual disposition of the asset.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
As discussed in Note 4, the assets and liabilities at March 31,
2012 and 2011, related to International Labs, Inc. (“INL”), the company’s former packaging division, have been
accounted for as discontinued operations. There are no operations related to INL in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Our primary customers are pharmaceutical wholesalers. In accordance
with our revenue recognition policy, revenue is recognized when title and risk of loss are transferred to the customer, the sales
price to the customer is fixed and determinable, and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Reported revenue
is net of estimated customer returns and other wholesaler fees. Our policy regarding sales to customers is that we do not recognize
revenue from, or the cost of, such sales, where we believe the customer has more than a demonstrably reasonable level of inventory.
We make this assessment based on historical demand, historical customer ordering patterns for purchases, business considerations
for customer purchases and estimated inventory levels. If our actual experience proves to be different than our assumptions, we
would then adjust such allowances accordingly.
 
Stock-Based Compensation 
 
The Company accounts for stock-based compensation transactions in
which the Company receives employee services in exchange for options to purchase common stock. Stock-based compensation cost for
restricted stock units (“RSUs”) is measured based on the closing fair market value of the Company’s common stock
on the date of grant. Stock-based compensation cost for stock options is estimated at the grant date based on each option’s
fair-value as calculated by the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost as expense
ratably on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
 
Research and Development
 
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable
advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are
expensed when the research and development activities are performed.
 
Legal Expense
 
Legal fees are expensed as incurred and are included in
selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company accounts for income taxes under the deferred income
tax method. Under this method deferred income taxes are determined based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between
the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities given the provisions of enacted tax laws.
 
Deferred income tax provisions and benefits are based on changes
to the assets and liabilities from year to year. In providing for deferred taxes, the Company considers tax regulations of the
jurisdictions in which they operate, estimates of future taxable income, and available tax planning strategies. If tax regulations,
operating results or the ability to implement tax planning strategies vary, adjustments to the carrying value of deferred tax assets
and liabilities may be required. Valuation allowances are recorded related to deferred tax assets based on the “more likely
than not” criteria.
 


F-8
 

 
The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with
accounting guidance which requires the Company to recognize the financial statement benefit of a tax position only after determining
that the relevant tax authority would, more likely than not, sustain the position following an audit. For tax positions meeting
the more likely than not threshold, the amount recognized in the financial statements is the largest benefit that has a greater
than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the relevant tax authority. At the adoption date, the
Company applied the guidance to all tax positions for which the statue of limitations remained open. Upon implementation, the Company
did not recognize any additional liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. Accordingly, the adoption of the guidance had no impact
on the Company's financial statements. There have been no material changes in unrecognized tax benefits since April 1, 2009.
 
The Company is subject to income taxes in the United
States Federal jurisdiction, California and Florida. The Company is no longer subject to the United States Federal,
California or Florida income examinations by tax authorities for the years before the year ended March 31, 2008. The Company
recognizes interest and penalty accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in its income tax expense, if any. No interest
or penalties have been accrued for all presented periods.
  
Net Loss Per Share
 
The Company computes basic loss per share by dividing the loss attributable
to holders of common stock for the period by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Since the effect of common stock equivalents was anti-dilutive, all such equivalents were excluded from the calculation of weighted
average shares outstanding. Outstanding warrants at March 31, 2012 and 2011 were 2,473,245 and 2,173,245, respectively. The outstanding
options at March 31, 2012 and 2011 were 5,230,398 and 3,651,112, respectively.
 
Reclassifications

 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the March 31,
2011 financial statement presentation to correspond to the current year’s classification. Total stockholders’ (deficit) and
net loss are unchanged due to these reclassifications.


Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In April 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”)
No. 2010-17, updating “Revenue Recognition – Milestone Method (Topic 605); Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition”
(codified within ASC 605 – Revenue Recognition) (“ASU 2010-17”). ASU 2010-17 provides guidance on defining a
milestone and determining when it may be appropriate to apply the milestone method of revenue recognition for research and development
transactions. The Company adopted ASU 2010-17 effective for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2011 and did not have a material
impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
In December 2010, the FASB has issued ASU No. 2010-27, updating
“Other Expenses (Topic 720): Fees Paid to the Federal Government by Pharmaceutical Manufacturers” (“ASU 2010-27”).
ASU 2010-27 provides guidance on how pharmaceutical manufacturers should recognize and classify in their income statements fees
mandated by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (the
Acts). The Acts impose an annual fee on the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry for each calendar year beginning on or after
January 1, 2011. An entity’s portion of the annual fee is payable no later than September 30 of the applicable calendar year
and is not tax deductible. A portion of the annual fee will be allocated to individual entities on the basis of the amount of their
branded prescription drug sales for the preceding year as a percentage of the industry’s branded prescription drug sales
for the same period. An entity’s portion of the annual fee becomes payable to the U.S. Treasury once a pharmaceutical manufacturing
entity has a gross receipt from branded prescription drug sales to any specified government program or in accordance with coverage
under any government program for each calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2011. ASU 2010-27 did not have a material
impact on the consolidated financial statements.
  


F-9
 

 

NOTE 4:DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

 
Effective July 18, 2008, the Company’s former packaging division
(INL) was sold for $2,654,000. On the closing date, $2,154,000 was paid to a lender to retire long-term debt. Additionally, $500,000
of the purchase price was held in escrow to secure any of the Company’s indemnification obligations. During 2011 and 2012,
the Company settled a total of $150,000 of the amount held for indemnification obligations. At March 31, 2012 and 2011, assets
from discontinued operations consisted of $130,000 and $200,000, respectively, held in escrow.
 

NOTE 5:CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit
risk consist principally of cash and accounts payable.
 
Cash
 
The Company at times may have cash in excess of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) limit. The Company maintains its cash with larger financial institutions. The Company
has not experienced losses on these accounts and management believes that the Company is not exposed to significant risks on such
accounts.
  
Purchases and Accounts Payable
 
The Company had balances greater than 10% of trade accounts payable
at March 31, 2012 with three vendors. Vendor A had a balance that accounted for 26% of total accounts payables  Vendor B had a
balance of 13% and Vendor C had a balance of 11% at March 31, 2012.
  

NOTE 6:PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS

 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets at March 31, 2012 and
2011:
 


  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Prepaid Insurance 
$3,750  
$8,511 

  
    
   

Prepaid Rent 
 10,827  
 —  

Prepaid Consulting Fees 
 13,125  
 286,199 

Other Current Assets 
 3,818  
 — 

  
    
   

  
$31,520  
$294,710 

 

NOTE 7:NOTES PAYABLE

 
Ben Franklin Note
 
Biosyn (a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and previously
a wholly owned subsidiary of Cellegy) issued a note payable to Ben Franklin Technology Center of Southeastern Pennsylvania
(“Ben Franklin Note”) in October 1992, in connection with funding the development of Savvy, a compound then under development
to prevent the transmission of HIV/AIDS.
 


F-10
 

 
The Ben Franklin Note was recorded at its estimated fair value of
$205,000 and was assumed by Cellegy as an obligation in connection with its acquisition of Biosyn in 2004. The repayment terms
of the non-interest bearing obligation include the remittance of an annual fixed percentage of 3.0% applied to future revenues
of Biosyn, if any, until the principal balance of $777,902 (face amount) is satisfied. Under the terms of the obligation, revenues
are defined to exclude the value of unrestricted research and development funding received by Biosyn from nonprofit sources. Absent
a material breach of contract or other event of default, there is no obligation to repay the amounts in the absence of future Biosyn
revenues. Cellegy accreted the discount of $572,902 against earnings using the interest rate method (approximately 46%) over the
discount period of five years, which was estimated in connection with the Ben Franklin Note’s valuation at the time of the
acquisition.
 
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States emphasize
market-based measurement through the use of valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable or market-based inputs. The
Ben Franklin Note’s peculiar repayment terms outlined above affects its comparability with main stream market issues and
also affects its transferability. The value of the Ben Franklin Note would also be impacted by the ability to estimate Biosyn’s
expected future revenues which in turn hinge largely upon the outcome of Savvy contraception trial and on future efforts to commercialize
the product candidate, the results of which efforts are not known by the Company. Given the above factors and therefore the lack
of market comparability, the Ben Franklin Note would be valued based on Level 3 inputs. As such, management has determined
that the Ben Franklin Note will have no future cash flows, as we do not believe the product will create a revenue stream in
the future. As a result, the Note had no fair market value at the time of the merger between the Company and Cellegy (see Note
1).
 
G-Max Trust Note
 
On December 29, 2009, the Company issued a Convertible Promissory
Note (the “G-Max Note”) in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 and 500,000 shares of common stock to The G-Max
Trust (the “Investor”) in connection with a private placement to the Investor for gross proceeds of $500,500. The market
value of the common stock on the date issued was $0.25 per share, for a total value of $125,000. A discount on the note payable
of $124,500 was recorded as a result, and was being amortized over the term of the G-Max Note. The stock was restricted for six
months from the date issued. Amortization of the discount, which is included in interest expense, was $93,375 for the year ended
March 31, 2011. As of March 31, 2012, the net carrying amount was $0 and the net unamortized discount was $0. The interest recognized
in the contractual interest coupon was $12,638 and $50,694 for the years ended March 31, 2012 and  2011, respectively.
 
Interest on the outstanding principal balance of the G-Max Note
accrued at a rate of 10% per annum compounded monthly and was payable monthly commencing February 1, 2010.  All unpaid
principal and interest on the G-Max Note was due and payable on June 30, 2011 (the “Maturity Date”).
 
At any time on or before the Maturity Date, the Investor had the
right to convert part or all of the principal and interest owed under the G-Max Note into common stock at a conversion price equal
to $0.20 per share (subject to adjustment for stock dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits, reclassifications or other similar
events affecting the number of outstanding shares of common stock). The conversion feature is considered beneficial to the Investor
due to the purchase of the discounted shares. The estimated value of the beneficial conversion feature was $249,500. The entire
amount was recorded as interest expense upon issuance as the G-Max Note was convertible at any time. The effective annual interest
rate of the G-Max Note was 84.8% after considering the discount and beneficial conversion feature. The G-Max Note was converted
into 2,500,000 shares of common stock on June 30, 2011.
 
Gemini Master Fund, Ltd. Notes
 
The Company completed a private placement financing transaction
(the “January 2010 Financing”) with a small number of institutional investors led by Gemini Master Fund, Ltd., pursuant
to a Securities Purchase Agreement.  The Company issued 10% Senior Secured Convertible Notes (the “Notes”) in
the aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.5 million and 1,500,000 shares of common stock of the Company, and received
gross proceeds of $1.5 million, excluding transaction costs and expenses. The fair market value of the Company's common stock
on the date of the transaction was $ 0.41 per share. A discount of approximately $600,000 was calculated as a result, and was
being amortized over the life of the Notes. The stock was restricted for six months from the date issued. Amortization of the
discount, which is included in interest expense, was $433,944 for the year ended March 31, 2011. As of March 31, 2012, the net
carrying amount was $0 and the net amortized discount was $0. Interest recognized on the contractual coupon was $11,724 and $108,906
for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
 


F-11
 

 
Interest on the Notes was payable at a rate of 10% per annum and
was payable monthly on the first business day of each month. Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest were due and payable
on June 30, 2011.  The Notes were convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock at any time at the discretion
of the investor at an initial conversion price per share of $0.20, subject to adjustment for stock splits, stock dividends and
other similar transactions and subject to the terms of the Notes. The conversion price was also subject to price anti-dilution
adjustments providing that if the Company issues equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities at an effective
price per share below the conversion price of the Notes (subject to certain exceptions), the conversion price of the Notes would
be adjusted downward to equal the price of the new securities. The conversion feature was considered beneficial to the investors
due to the purchase of the discounted shares. The estimated value of the beneficial conversion feature was approximately $2.2 million.
The entire amount was recorded as interest expense upon issuance since the Notes were convertible at any time. The effective interest
rate of the Notes was 210.4% after considering the discount and beneficial conversion feature.
 
During April through June 2011, certain of the Gemini Note holders
exercised their conversion feature to convert their Notes into shares of the Company's common stock. A total of 1,593,102 shares
were issued in the conversion of notes with a total converted amount of $318,620, including interest. On June 30, 2011, the three
remaining Gemini note holders accepted payment of the principal amounts owed. The amount of the notes paid and retired was $345,000.
 

Notes Payable
On November 30, 2010, the Company entered into
a note payable with a drug wholesaler related to sales returns in the amount of $132,741.  The note bears interest at
the prime rate, plus 2% (5.25% at March 31, 2012), and requires monthly payments of $10,000.  The note is currently due
on demand.  The outstanding balance on this note at March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $75,242 and
$92,741, respectively. 
On May 1, 2011, the Company entered into a
non-interest bearing note payable with a drug wholesaler related to sales returns in the amount of $147,866.  The note
requires monthly payments of $10,000 with a final payment of $7,866 due on July 15, 2012.  The outstanding balance on
this note at March 31, 2012 was $120,366.

Notes Payable to Related Parties
 
The Company had notes payable to related parties amounting to $105,632
and $101,232 at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which bear interest at 10%. Accrued interest, which is included in accrued
expenses, in the consolidated balance sheet, related to the notes was $63,934 and $53,527 at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
On various dates during the twelve months ended March 31, 2012 and
included in the amount above, the Company issued promissory notes to related parties for a total of $14,400, that bear interest at
10% with all principal and interest due on various maturity dates, originally. The principal amount repaid during fiscal 2012 was
$10,000. Interest continues to accrue on the unpaid principal balances.
 

NOTE 8:LEGAL MATTERS

 
In addition to the matters described
below, we may become involved in or subject to, routine litigation, claims, disputes, proceedings and investigations in the ordinary
course of business, which in our opinion will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results
of operations.
 
Cosmo Bioscience, Inc. et.
al. v. Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corp. and Maurizio Zanetti
Cosmo Bioscience, Inc. et. al. v.
Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corp. and Maurizio Zanetti was filed in San Diego Superior Court in May 2010 and was stayed in November
2010. Plaintiffs are affiliated Cosmo Bioscience entities who claim to have sublicensed certain patented technology from Eurogen
BV, an entity wholly owned and controlled by Maurizio Zanetti. Plaintiffs claimed that Zanetti wrongfully terminated their license,
and further that Zanetti improperly licensed the same technology to Adamis in violation of plaintiffs’ exclusive license
agreement. Plaintiffs asserted a single claim for declaratory relief seeking a declaration that the Cosmo sublicense was in full
force and effect, and that the Adamis license is invalid. In a previous effort to assert claims with respect to the technology,
one of the principals of Cosmo previously had claimed to be a co-inventor of the patents involved in the lawsuit – a claim
which was rejected by a U.S. federal district court. On July 26, 2010, Zanetti filed a motion to compel arbitration on the
ground that the license he signed with Cosmo specified that Italian courts and Italian law would govern the license. Also on that
date, Adamis filed a motion to stay the litigation pending resolution of any Italian arbitration. Those motions were granted in
favor of Zanetti and Adamis on November 22, 2010, and the Cosmo litigation was stayed. Cosmo filed and served on Zanetti
a Notice of Arbitration, seeking to compel arbitration in Italy, on May 14, 2012. Adamis is not a party to the arbitration because
it was not a party to the Cosmo license agreement.


F-12
 

 
Curtis Leahy, et. al. v. Dennis J. Carlo, et al.
In May 2010, Curtis Leahy, et. al.
v. Dennis J. Carlo, et al. was filed in San Diego Superior Court. The plaintiffs – Antaeus Capital Partners, Curtis Leahy,
and David Amron – are Adamis shareholders, and they sought to represent a putative class of shareholders. The defendants
named in the Complaint are Adamis, Dennis Carlo, David Marguglio, Robert Hopkins, and Richard Aloi, who are (or, in the case of
Mr. Aloi, were) officers and/or directors of Adamis. Plaintiffs assert claims for violations of Section 25401, 25501, and 25504
of the California Corporations Code, and claims for common law fraud and negligent misrepresentation based on the allegations that
defendants misrepresented and omitted material information in private placement memoranda distributed by Adamis in 2006 and 2008
regarding, among other things, Adamis’ license rights with respect to certain patented anti-viral technology; this claim
appears to be based in part on the allegations of the Cosmo plaintiffs in the Cosmo lawsuit described above.
On May 27, 2011, plaintiffs filed
a motion for class certification seeking to certify a putative class of shareholders who purchased stock pursuant to either or
both of Adamis’ 2006 and 2008 private placement memoranda. On June 28, 2011, the court issued an order denying the plaintiffs’
motion for class certification on the grounds that (1) plaintiffs failed to meet their burden to show that there are common issues
of fact to certify the class and (2) the individual plaintiffs were not adequate class representatives. Plaintiffs have appealed
the court’s order denying class certification, and Adamis believes the appeal will be resolved in late 2012 or early 2013.
The Company continues to believe that
the plaintiffs’ allegations are without merit, intends to defend against plaintiffs’ claims vigorously and may assert
any available counterclaims. Litigation fees and costs have been incurred and not accrued through March 31, 2012. The unaccrued
fees and costs have been submitted to our insurance carrier who has agreed to pay the fees and costs pursuant to the terms of
our insurance policy, subject to a reservation of rights letter.

Agape World, Inc.
Agape World, Inc. is a company involved
in an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding filed in 2009. Its principal, Nicholas Cosmo, was indicted and faces criminal trial on
many counts of wire fraud and other claims, based on allegations that he operated a Ponzi scheme through Agape and other entities.
More than two years before the date of this Report on Form 10-K, the bankruptcy trustee of Agape contacted Adamis by telephone,
asserting that Agape World paid $1 million to Adamis for 2 million shares of common stock of Adamis, but that the stock was issued
not to Agape World, but instead to Mr. Cosmo, a principal of Agape World, and claiming that this constituted a fraudulent transfer.
The Company believes that the trustee has recovered the stock from the principal. The Company responded to the trustee denying
any fraudulent transfer or any other basis for a claim by the trustee. There has been no further communication between the trustee
and Adamis for more than two years, and no suit or any action has been filed against Adamis. Management believes that the trustee
has no basis for any fraudulent transfer or other claims against Adamis. Due to the limited nature of discussions with Agape, the
early stage of this matter and the facts in this case, the outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.
The litigation described in this section
could divert management time and attention from Adamis, could involve significant amounts of legal fees and other fees and expenses.
An adverse outcome in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on Adamis.
 

NOTE 9:LICENSING AGREEMENTS

 
On July 28, 2006, the Company entered into a nonexclusive, royalty
free license agreement with an entity for the technology used to research and develop new viral therapies, and an exclusive royalty-bearing
license requiring a small percentage of revenue received by the Company on future products developed and sold with a payment cap
of $10,000,000. The Company paid the entity an initial license fee and granted one of the entity’s officers the right to
purchase 1,000,000 Founder’s shares in the Company at price of $0.001 pursuant to a separate stock purchase agreement. The
Company also granted the entity a royalty-free non-exclusive license to use any improvements made on the existing technology for
research purposes only. The Company and the entity have the right to sublicense with written permission of each party. In the event
that the entity sublicenses or sells the improved technology to a third party, then a portion of the total payments, to be decided
by mutual agreement, will be due to the Company.
 


F-13
 

 
The Company is obligated to make the following milestone payments
to the entity based on commencement of various clinical trials and submissions of an application to the FDA for regulatory approval: 



 
Amount
 

 
Date due

$ 50,000
 
Within 30 days of commencement of Phase I/II clinical trial.

 
 
 

  50,000
 
Within 30 days of commencement of a separate Phase II trial as required by the FDA.

 
 
 

 300,000
 
Within 30 days of commencement of a Phase III trial.

 
 
 

 500,000
 
Within 30 days of submission of a biological license application or a new drug application with the FDA.

 
Total milestone payments are not to exceed $900,000 and can
only be paid one time and will not repeat for subsequent products. At March 31, 2012 and 2011, no milestones have been achieved.
 
The agreement will remain in effect as long as the patent rights
remain in effect. Adamis has the right to terminate the agreement if it is determined that no viable product can come from the
technology. Adamis would be required to transfer and assign all filings, rights and other information in its control if termination
occurs. Adamis would retain the same royalty rights for license, or sublicense, agreements if the technology is later developed
into a product.
 
Either party may terminate the license agreement in the event of
a material breach of the agreement by the other party that has not been cured or corrected within 90 days of notice of the breach.
 
On September 22, 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with
an entity to manufacture an influenza vaccine for the Company. The agreement requires the Company to pay $70,000 upon commencement
of the project, followed by monthly payments based upon services performed until the project is complete. No product has been manufactured
and no payments have been made as of March 31, 2012. Once the project begins, the total payments will aggregate $283,420. The project
has an open ended start time. Adamis may terminate the agreement upon notice to the other party, other than reimbursing the other
party for non-cancellable materials and supplies ordered, and work in progress, through the date of the termination.
 
On February 24, 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with
Colby Pharmaceutical Company (“Colby”) to acquire three separate exclusive license agreements, covering three small
molecule anti-inflammatory compounds, named APC-100, APC-200 and APC-300, for the potential treatment of human prostate cancer,
or PCa, in exchange for shares of the Company’s common stock. Colby licensed the patents, patent applications and related
intellectual property relating to the compounds pursuant to license agreements with a third party (“WARF”). Pursuant
to the agreement as amended, on February 25, 2010, the Company was assigned and transferred the license agreement relating to the
APC-300 compound in consideration of the issuance of 800,000 shares of common stock to Colby. The transfer of the license agreements
relating to APC-100 and APC-200 occurred at a subsequent closing, pursuant to an amendment to the original agreement. Under the
amendment, Colby assigned and transferred to the Company the license agreements relating to APC-100 and APC-200 in consideration
for the issuance to Colby of 5,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock.  Additionally, the Company issued
1,250,000 shares to each of two parties related to Colby, for consulting services rendered to the Company in connection with the
intellectual property covered by the license agreements.
 


F-14
 

 
Under the agreements, with respect to sublicenses granted by the
Company, the Company is to pay WARF according to the following schedule:
 

1.Forty percent (40%) of amounts received under each agreement entered into before an Investigational New Drug ("IND")
application is filed by the Company with the Federal Drug Administration ("FDA") for a Product made a subject of the
sublicense.

  

2.Thirty percent (30%) of amounts received under each agreement entered into after the filing of an IND under item (1) above
until completion of a Phase 1 clinical trial by the Company for that Product.

  

3.Twenty-five percent (25%) of amounts received under each agreement entered into after completion of item (2) above until completion
of a Phase II clinical trial by the Company for that Product.

  

4.Twenty percent (20%) of amounts received under each agreement entered into after completion of item (3) above until a New Drug
Application ("NDA") has been approved by the FDA for that Product.

  

5.Ten percent (10%) of amounts received under each agreement entered into after the NDA has been approved by the FDA for that
Product.
 
Milestone Payments are outlined below:
 

1.$25,000 upon the filing of the first IND or comparable regulatory filing for a human therapeutic Product.

  

2.$150,000 upon the enrollment of its first patient under a Phase II clinical trial for the first human therapeutic Product.

  

3.$200,000 upon the enrollment of its first patient under a Phase III clinical trial for the first human therapeutic Product.
 

4.$250,000 for the first NDA or comparable regulatory approval for a human therapeutic
Product.

 
These milestone payments occur only once for each of the compounds
  

NOTE 10:COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

 
In addition to the matters described in Note 8, the Company may
become involved in or subject to, routine litigation, claims, disputes, proceedings and investigations in the ordinary course of
business, which in our opinion will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.
 
Office Lease
In April 2011, the Company leased approximately 2,400 square
feet of office space in San Diego, California. The term of the lease is three years. The rents for each of the remaining two
years are $64,948 and $55,283, respectively. There are no options to extend the lease term. Total rent expense was $71,050
and $30,805 for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 

NOTE 11:CAPITAL STRUCTURE

 
The Company is authorized to issue 175,000,000 shares of common
stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.0001 per share.
 
In December 2008, The Company issued
500,000 shares of its common stock as payment for past consulting services. According to the consulting agreement, the stock
is guaranteed to have a value of $1,000,000 within ten business days of the agreement’s anniversary on March 20, 2010,
and is non-refundable. As the 500,000, shares of common stock did not have a value of $1,000,000 in March 2010, effective
May 1, 2010 the Company extended its consulting agreement to assist the Company in its public relations efforts and issued 1,500,000
shares of its common stock fulfilling the Company's obligation from its prior agreement.  On
September 27, 2010, the Company repurchased 2,551,502 shares of common stock that were originally part of the holdback shares relating
to the
 


F-15
 

 
 Healthcare Ventures Group Acquisition, pursuant to repurchase rights in stock restriction agreements with the holders of
those shares, for an aggregate price of $2,552.  During September 2010, the Company determined not to exercise its right
of repurchase under the stock restriction agreements relating to 2,645,097 shares held by an officer and director of the Company,
such person agreed not to seek any amounts for past compensation relating to approximately $77,000 of accrued bonus liability previously
reflected on the Company's financial statements, and the accrued bonus liability was accordingly reduced on the Company's financial
statements and included in additional paid-in capital, or compensation expense, accordingly. 
 
On April 6, 2010 the Company entered into an agreement with a consultant
to assist with the branding of the Company and its products. The Company issued 500,000 shares of its common stock, with a value
of $100,000, for these services. The value was capitalized and is being amortized over the term of the agreement.
 
On May 1, 2010 the Company entered into a two year consulting agreement
with a consultant for services pertaining to public relations. The Company issued 1,500,000 share of its common stock, with a value
of $315,000, for these services. The value was capitalized and is being amortized over the term of the agreement.
 
On May 1, 2010 the Company entered into a consulting agreement with
a consultant to assist the Company in its public relations efforts with investors and markets. As compensation, the Company issued
250,000 shares of its common stock, with a value of $52,000. The value was capitalized and is being amortized over the term of
the agreement.
 
On May 4, 2010 the Company and a consultant agreed to terminate
a consulting services agreement entered into on February 1, 2010. The Company paid the $70,000 owed under the agreement by issuing
350,000 shares of the Company's common stock. Further, the Company and Colby Pharmaceuticals reduced 200,000 shares, with a value
of $80,000, from the 1,000,000 shares originally issuable to Colby Pharmaceuticals as part of the license acquisition agreement
between the Company and Colby Pharmaceuticals.
 
During the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010, the Company
issued 1,580,000 shares of common stock to a small number of sophisticated investors in financing transactions at a price of $0.25
per share, for gross proceeds of $395,000, as well as 400,000 shares of common stock to be issued for gross proceeds of $100,000.
During the third fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010, the stock to be issued was cancelled and the cash received was returned
to the investors.
 
During the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010 and the fiscal
quarter ended December 31, 2010, certain of the Gemini note holders exercised their conversion feature to convert their notes into
shares of the Company's common stock. A total of approximately 4,188,893 shares were issued in the conversion of notes and accrued
interest with a total converted amount of $837,777 including interest of $777.
 
On July 21, 2010 the Company entered into an 18-month consultant
agreement with a consultant for services pertaining to public relations. The Company issued 1,000,000 shares of its common stock,
with a value of $200,000, for these services.
 
On September 27, 2010, the Company repurchased 1,575,000 shares
of common stock pursuant to repurchase rights in stock restriction agreements from a former officer, for $1,575.
 
On October 16, 2010, the Company entered into an amendment to the
Assignment, Assumption and Stock Acquisition Agreement dated February 24, 2010 with Colby Pharmaceutical Company, a privately held
company. Under the amendment, Colby assigned and transferred to the Company the license agreements relating to two potential prostate
cancer drug candidates, named APC-100 and APC-200, in consideration for the issuance to Colby of 5,000,000 shares of the Company’s
common stock at a value of $1,215,000. Additionally, the Company issued 1,250,000 shares each to two consultants for consulting
services rendered to the Company in connection with the intellectual property covered by the license agreements. Such services
were valued at $607,500.
 


F-16
 

 
On November 10, 2010, the Company completed a private placement
transaction (the “Financing”) pursuant to a Common Stock Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”)
and a Registration Rights Agreement (the “Registration Rights Agreement”). The Purchase Agreement provided for the
sale of up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock of Adamis to a foreign institutional investor (the “Purchaser”), at
a price of $0.25 per share, for up to $10 million of gross proceeds. An initial closing was held on November 10, 2010 pursuant
to which the Company received $5,000,000 in gross proceeds and issued 20,000,000 shares of common stock. Proceeds have been reduced
by $36,664 for fees incurred related to the private placement transaction.
 
During the first fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2011, certain holders
of the Gemini Notes exercised their conversion feature to convert their notes into shares of the Company’s common stock.
A total of 1,593,101 shares were issued in the conversion of notes and accrued interest with a total converted amount of $318,619.
 
On June 30, 2011, the holder of the G-Max Note converted the entire
$500,000 principal amount of the note into 2,500,000 shares of common stock at the conversion price stated in the note.
 
On June 30, 2011, the Purchaser received 2,200,000 shares of common
stock at $0.25 per share in connection with the Financing, for cash proceeds totaling $550,000. Effective July 21, 2011, the Purchaser
received an additional 2,200,000 shares of common stock at $0.25 per share in connection with the second cash payment of $550,000
pursuant to the amendment to the Purchase Agreement.
 
On August 1, 2011, the Company entered into a consulting agreement
with a consultant to assist the Company in the evaluation of potential product and technology candidates and related product financing
structures and arrangements, and the development of the Company’s general business plan. As compensation, the Company issued
250,000 shares of its common stock, with a value of $60,000. The value was capitalized and is being amortized over the five-month
term of the agreement.
 
On November 10, 2011, the
Company issued 2,800,000 shares of common stock to the Purchaser under the second amendment to the Purchase Agreement for cash
proceeds totaling $700,000.
 
On January 31, 2012, the Purchaser received 1,500,000 shares of
common stock at $0.25 per share in connection with the Financing, for cash proceeds totaling $375,000. Effective February 13, 2012,
the Purchaser received an additional 499,680 shares of common stock at $0.25 per share in connection with the second cash payment
of $124,920. On February 29, 2012, the Purchaser received 800,640 shares of common stock at $0.25 per share in connection with
the Financing, for cash proceeds totaling $200,160 pursuant to the third amendment to the Purchase Agreement.
 

NOTE 12:STOCK OPTION PLANS, SHARES RESERVED AND WARRANTS

 
The Company has a 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2009 Plan”).
The 2009 Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted
stock unit awards, stock appreciation rights, performance stock awards, and other forms of equity compensation (collectively “stock
awards”).  In addition, the 2009 Plan provides for the grant of performance cash awards.  The initial
aggregate number of shares of common stock that may be issued initially pursuant to stock awards under the 2009 Plan was 7,000,000
shares.  The number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance automatically increase on January 1 of each calendar
year, from January 1, 2010 through and including January 1, 2019, by the lesser of (a) 5.0% of the total number of shares of common
stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year or (b) a lesser number of shares of common stock determined by
the Company’s board of directors before the start of a calendar year for which an increase applies. On January 1, 2012 and
2011, the number of shares reserved for this issuance increased by 4,656,698 and 4,079,517 respectively, aggregating to 18,063,613
at March 31, 2012.
 
From June 2010 through September 2010 the Company issued warrants
to purchase up to 395,000 shares of common stock to purchasers of the Company's common stock. The warrants have an exercise price
of $0.30 per share. The options have a five year term and expire between June and September 2015. The warrants had an intrinsic
value of $36,550.
 

F-17
 

 
On August 20, 2010 the Company granted 3,150,398 options to a number
of its employees to purchase the Company's common stock. The stock options have an exercise price of $0.27 per share, which was
equal to the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant. 2,525,000 of the stock options vest
over a period of three years from the date of the grant, and expire on the 10th anniversary of the grant date of the option and
625,398 of the stock options immediately vest. The Company estimated that the stock options have a fair market value of $0.12 per
share using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Management’s assumptions included in the model were volatility of 31.675%,
a risk-free interest rate of 2.6% based on the 10-year Treasury Rate at the date of the grant and no dividends. The Company estimated
a forfeiture rate of 0%. The Company recorded stock based compensation expense of $125,465 and a reduction of accrued expenses
of $1,068,786 related to such stock options for the year-ended March 31, 2011. Stock based compensation expense related to these
option was $101,000 for the year - ended March 31, 2012.
 
On January 12, 2011, the Company added a board member, who was
granted a stock option by the Company to purchase up to 50,000 shares of common stock. The stock option has an exercise price
of $0.21 per share, which was equal to the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant.
The stock option vests over a period of three years from the date of the grant, and expire on the 10th anniversary of the
grant date of the option. The Company estimated that the stock option has a fair market value of $0.10 per share using the
Black-Scholes valuation model. Management’s assumptions included in the model were volatility of 30.865%, a risk-free
interest rate of 3.4% based on the 10-year Treasury Rate at the date of the grant and no dividends. The Company estimated a
forfeiture rate of 0%. The Company recorded stock based compensation expense of $832 and $2,708 related to such stock options
for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
On February 10, 2011, the Company added two board members, who
were granted stock options by the Company to purchase up to 100,000 shares of common stock. The stock options have an
exercise price of $0.20 per share, which was equal to the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date
of the grant. The stock options vest over a period of three years from the date of the grant, and expire on the 10th
anniversary of the grant date of the options. The Company estimated that the stock options have a fair market value of $0.10
per share using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Management’s assumptions included in the model were volatility of
30.865%, a risk-free interest rate of 3.7% based on the 10-year Treasury Rate at the date of the grant and no dividends. The
Company estimated a forfeiture rate of 0%. The Company recorded stock based compensation expense of $1,668 and $5,278 related
to such stock options for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
On July 11, 2011, the Company entered into a consulting agreement
with a consultant to assist the Company in researching its markets and analyzing its opportunities. As part of the compensation,
the consultant received a warrant to purchase 300,000 shares of common stock, with an exercise price of $0.22 and a term of five
years. The value of the warrants was $21,000.
 
On September 12, 2011, the Company issued options to purchase
1,575,000 shares of common stock to directors, officers and employees of the Company under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan
with an exercise price of $0.19 per share. One-third of the options vest immediately, and the options become exercisable with
respect to the remaining shares over a period of two years. These options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model during the quarter ended September 30, 2011, the expected volatility was approximately 31%, and the risk-free interest
rate was approximately 2% which resulted in a calculated fair value of $126,000. The Company recorded stock based
compensation expense of $66,500 for the year ended March 31, 2012.
 
On September 13, 2011, the Company issued options to purchase 105,000
shares of common stock to the independent directors of the Company under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan with an exercise price
of $0.18 per share. The options become exercisable with respect to 1/36 of the shares monthly over a period of three years. These
options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model during the quarter ended September 30, 2011, the expected volatility
was approximately 31%, and the risk-free interest rate was approximately 2% which resulted in a calculated fair value of $8,400.
The Company recorded stock based compensation expense of $1,633 for the year ended March 31, 2012.
 
 

F-18
 

 
The
following summarizes the stock option activity for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 below:
 


  
2009 Equity Incentive Plan  
Weighted Average Exercise Price 
Weighted Average Remaining Contract Life 
Non-Plan Stock Options  
Weighted Average Exercise Price 
Weighted Average Remaining Contract Life

Balance as of April 1, 2010 
 250,000  
$0.22 
8.27 years 
 100,714  
$41.27 
2.61 years

Options Granted 
 3,350,398  
$0.27 
9.42 years 
 —  
   
 —

Options Exercised 
 —  
   
 — 
 —  
   
 —

Options Canceled 
 50,000  
$0.21 
 — 
 —  
   
 —

  
    
   
  
    
   
 

Balance as of March 31, 2011 
 3,550,398  
$0.26 
9.34 years 
 100,714  
$41.27 
2.61 years

  
    
   
  
    
   
 

Options Granted 
 1,680,000  
$0.19 
9.24 years 
 —  
   
 —

Options Exercised 
 —  
   
 — 
 —  
   
 —

Options Canceled 
 —  
   
 — 
 —  
   
 —

  
    
   
  
    
   
 

Balance as of March 31, 2012 
 5,230,398  
$0.24 
8.69 years 
 100,714  
$41.27 
1.60 years

  
    
   
  
    
   
 

Exercisable at March 31, 2012 
 3,162,109  
$0.24 
8.69 years 
 100,714  
$41.27 
1.60 years

 
The Company has reserved shares of common stock
for issuance upon exercise at March 31, 2012 as follows:
 


Warrants 
 2,473,245 

Non-Plan Stock Options 
 100,714 

2009 Equity Incentive Plan 
 18,063,613 

Total Shares Reserved 
 20,637,572 

 
The weighted-average grant-date fair
value of stock options granted during the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was approximately $317,000 and $895,000 respectively.
 
At March 31, 2012 and 2011, there
was approximately $222,000 and $260,000, respectively, of unrecognized compensation costs related to non-vested option
awards. This expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.8 years.
 
The following summarizes warrants outstanding
at March 31, 2012:
 


 
Warrant Shares 
Exercise Price Per Share  
Date Issued  
Expiration Date 


Biosyn Warrants
8,245 
$57.97 - $173.92  
 October 22, 2004  
October 2013 - 2014 


Investor Warrants
395,000 
$0.30  
  September 15, 2010  
 September 15, 2015 


  
    
    
  
 

Old Adamis Warrants
1,000,000 
$0.50  
 November 15, 2007  
November 15, 2012 


Consultant Warrants
300,000 
$0.25  
 August 26, 2009  
August 26, 2014 


Consultant Warrants
270,000 
$0.20  
 January 29, 2010  
January 25, 2015 


Consultant Warrants
200,000 
$0.29  
 October 26, 2009  
October 26, 2014 


  
    
    
  
 

Consultant Warrants
300,000 
$0.22  
  July 11, 2011  
July 11, 2016 


  
    
    
  
 

Total Warrants
2,473,245 
    
    
  


 


F-19
 

 

NOTE 13:INCOME TAXES

 
At March 31, 2012, the Company had net operating loss carry forwards
of approximately $121 million and $49 million for federal and state purposes, respectively. The net operating loss carry forwards
expire through the year 2030. At March 31, 2012, the Company also had  research and development credit carry forwards of approximately
$2.8 million and $200,000 for federal and state purposes, respectively. The federal credits expire through the year 2027 and the
state credits expire through the year 2019. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 (the “Act) provides for a limitation on the annual
use of net operating loss and research and development tax credit carry forwards following certain ownership changes that could
that could limit the Company’s ability to utilize these carry forwards. The Company most likely has experienced various ownership
changes, as defined by the Act, as a result of past financings. Accordingly, the Company’s ability to utilize the aforementioned
carry forwards may be limited. Cellegy’s merger with Adamis as described in Note 1, may also impact the ability for the Company
to utilize certain of its net operating loss carry forwards. Additionally, U.S. tax laws limit the time during which these carry
forwards may be applied against future taxes, therefore, the Company may not be able to take full advantage of these carry forwards
for federal income tax purposes. The Company determined that the net operating loss carry forwards relating to Cellegy and Biosyn
are limited due to the acquisitions, in 2009 and 2004 and has reflected the estimated amount of usable net operating loss carry
forwards in its deferred tax assets below.
 
The benefit for income taxes from continuing operations consists
of the following for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011:
 


  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Current 
$—  
$— 

Deferred 
 1,212,000 
 (2,475,000)

  
    
   

Total 
 1,212,000 
 (2,475,000)

Change in Valuation Allowance 
 (1,212,000) 
 2,475,000 

 
    
   

Tax Benefit, net 
$—  
$— 

  
At March 31, 2012 and 2011 the significant components of the deferred
tax assets from continuing operations are summarized below:
  


  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Net Operating Loss Carry forwards 
$40,945,000  
$41,775,000 

Deferred Tax Assets 
 385,000  
 767,000 

  
    
   

Net Deferred Tax Assets 
 41,330,000  
 42,542,000 

Less Valuation Allowance 
 (41,330,000) 
 (42,542,000)

  
    
   

Net Deferred Tax Assets 
$—  
$— 

  


F-20
 

 
We have determined at March 31, 2012 and 2011 that a full valuation
allowance would be required against all of our operating loss carry forwards and deferred tax assets that we do not expect to be
utilized by deferred tax liabilities.
 
The following table reconciles our losses from continuing operations
before income taxes for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011.
 


  
   
2012  
2011 

  
   
   
  

Net (Loss)  
    
$(4,915,000) 
$(6,900,000)

  
    
    
   

Permanent Differences: 
    
    
   

  
    
    
   

Non-Cash Interest 
    
 1,000  
 528,000 

Meals and Entertainment 
    
 4,000  
 — 

  
    
$(4,910,000) 
$(6,452,000)

  
    
    
   

Federal Statutory Rate 
 34.00% 
$(1,671,000) 
$(2,373,000)

State Income Tax, net of Federal Tax 
 3.63% 
 (178,000) 
 (254,000)

  
    
    
   

Permanent Differences 
 37.63% 
 3,060,000  
 152,000 

Change in Valuation Allowance 
    
 (1,211,000) 
 2,475,000 

  
    
    
   

Expected Tax Benefit 
    
$—  
$— 

 


NOTE 14:SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

  
On April 2, 2012, the Company completed the closing of a private
placement financing transaction with Gemini Master Fund, Ltd., pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement. The Company issued
a 10% Senior Convertible Note in the aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000 and 1,000,000 shares of common stock of the Company,
and received gross proceeds of $1,000,000, excluding transaction costs and expenses.
 
Interest on the Gemini note is payable at a rate of 10% per annum
and is payable on the maturity date of the Gemini Note. Principal and accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable nine months
after the date of the Gemini Note. The Gemini note is convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock at any time at
the discretion of the investor at an initial conversion price per share of $0.25, subject to adjustment for stock splits, stock
dividends and other similar transactions and subject to the terms of the Gemini note. The conversion price is also subject to price
anti-dilution adjustments providing that with the exception of certain excluded categories of issuances and transactions, if the
Company issues equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities at an effective price per share less than the
conversion price of the Gemini note, the conversion price of the Gemini note will be adjusted downward to equal the per share price
of the new securities. The Company’s obligations under the Gemini note and the other transaction agreements are guaranteed
by the Company’s principal subsidiaries, including Adamis Corporation, Adamis Laboratories, Inc. and Adamis Viral, Inc.
 


F-21
 

 
The transaction agreements include restrictions on the Company’s
ability to engage in certain kinds of transactions while the Gemini note is outstanding without the consent of Gemini, including
incurring or paying certain kinds of indebtedness, entering into certain kinds of financing transactions, or encumbering the Company’s
assets (subject to certain exceptions). The transaction documents include a variety of liquidated damages, penalties and default
provisions upon events of default by the Company, including without limitation an increase in the principal amount and interest
rate and a potential decrease in the conversion price of the Gemini note, and in connection with certain other breaches of covenants
of the Company. If the shares underlying the Gemini note are not freely tradable under SEC Rule 144 after six months from the closing
of the Gemini note transaction, the Company intends to file a registration statement covering the resale of such shares.
 
On June 11, 2012, the Company completed the closing of a private
placement financing transaction with Gemini Master Fund, Ltd., pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement. The Company issued
a 10% Senior Convertible Note in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 and 500,000 shares of common stock of the Company,
and received gross proceeds of $500,000, excluding transaction costs and expenses. The maturity date is nine months after the date
of the note. The other materials terms and conditions are similar to the April 2, 2012 Gemini note described above, except that
the initial conversion price per share is $0.55.
 

Between April and June 2012 the Company converted seven
warrants for a total of 212,825 shares. The strike prices ranged between $.20 and $.30. The warrants were all exercised by means
of cashless conversions and the cumulative value was $146,762. 
On June 11, 2012, the Company issued a Convertible Promissory
Note in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 and 500,000 shares of common stock to The G-Max Trust (the “Investor”),
and received gross proceeds of approximately $500,000, excluding transaction costs and expenses.
 
Interest on the outstanding principal balance of the G-Max Note
accrues at a rate of 10% per annum compounded monthly and is payable monthly commencing July 1, 2012. All unpaid principal and
interest on the Note is due and payable on April 1, 2013.
 
At any time on or before the maturity date, the Investor has the
right to convert part or all of the principal and interest owed under the G-Max Note into Common Stock at a conversion price equal
to $0.55 per share subject to adjustment for stock dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits, reclassifications or other similar
events affecting the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock.
 
The G-Max Note includes piggyback registration rights providing
that at any time after one year after the date of the G-Max Note, if the shares issued to the Investor and the shares of common
stock issuable upon conversion of the G-Max Note (together, the “Transaction Shares”) cannot be sold without restriction
pursuant to SEC Rule 144, then if the Company files a registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
(the “Act”) relating to an offering for the account of others under the Act of any of its equity securities (other
than on Form S-4 or Form S-8 (each as promulgated under the Act) or their then equivalents), then the Company will promptly notify
the Investor and will include in such registration and any related qualification under blue sky laws or other compliance, and in
any underwriting involved therein, all Transaction Shares specified by the Investor. The Company will pay the registration fees
relating to the inclusion of the Transaction Shares in the registration statement.
  
The G-Max Note includes subordination provisions providing that
payment of principal, interest and any other amounts that may become due pursuant to the G-Max Note, and any other obligation that
the Company may have to the Investor (“Subordinated Indebtedness”), is subordinated to the payment in full of all “Senior
Indebtedness” of the Company, which is defined as any obligations of the Company outstanding on the date of the G-Max Note
or created thereafter pursuant to any secured note of the Company and any agreements relating thereto, and that as between the
Investor and any holder of Senior Indebtedness (a “Senior Lender”) the Senior Lender will hold a first priority lien
in all collateral relating to the Senior Indebtedness.  Until all of the Senior Indebtedness has been paid in full and
the Senior Lender has released its lien in the collateral, the Investor may not, without the Senior Lender’s prior written
consent, demand, receive or accept any payment, other than current interest payments, from the Company in respect of
the Subordinated Indebtedness, or exercise any right of or permit any setoff in respect of the Subordinated Indebtedness.  The
G-Max Note includes other customary subordination provisions, including provisions subordinating the Subordinated Indebtedness
to any Senior Indebtedness in the event of bankruptcy or similar proceedings or events.  In addition, if an event of
default occurs with respect to any Senior Indebtedness permitting the holder to accelerate the maturity thereof, then, unless the
event of default has been cured or waived or has ceased to exist, or all Senior Indebtedness has been paid in full, no payment
may be made in respect of the G-Max Note for a period of 180 days after the first occurrence of such event of default.
 
 
F-22

 
 




