
10-K
1
d259317d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549  FORM 10-K 
(Mark One)   


 
[X]
    Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011  or 


 
[ ]
    Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the transition period from
                     to
                     
Commission File Number 001-34066  

  






Delaware
 
36-3681151

 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 120 South LaSalle Street  Chicago, Illinois 60603  (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (312) 564-2000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of each class
 

    Name of each exchange on which registered    


Common Stock, No Par Value
 
Nasdaq Global Select Stock Market

10% Trust Preferred Securities of PrivateBancorp Capital Trust IV
 
Nasdaq Global Select Stock Market
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes [X] No [ ].
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.  Yes [ ] No [X].  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ].  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes [X] No [ ] 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Large accelerated filer [X] Accelerated filer [ ]
Non-accelerated filer [ ] Smaller reporting company [ ].  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).Yes [ ] No [X].  The aggregate market value of the registrant’s outstanding voting and
non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates on June 30, 2011, determined using a per share closing price on that date of $13.80, as quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market, was $826,139,912. 
At February 24, 2012, there were 72,415,731 shares of the issuer’s voting and non-voting common stock, without par value,
outstanding.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof. 
   
 


Table of Contents
FORM 10-K 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   










 
 
 
 
Page
 

 Part I.
 








 ITEM 1.
 
 Business
 
 
3
  





 ITEM 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
 
 
21
  





 ITEM 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
 
27
  





 ITEM 2.
 
 Properties
 
 
27
  





 ITEM 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
 
28
  





 ITEM 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
 
 
28
  




 Part II.
 








 ITEM 5.
 
 Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
 Securities
 
 
28
  





 ITEM 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
 
31
  





 ITEM 7.
 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
 
 
33
  





 ITEM 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 
 
78
  





 ITEM 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
 
79
  





 ITEM 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
 
 
148
  





 ITEM 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
 
148
  





 ITEM 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
 
150
  




 Part III.
 








 ITEM 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance
 
 
150
  





 ITEM 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
 
150
  





 ITEM 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
 
 
150
  





 ITEM 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
 
 
151
  





 ITEM 14.
 
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 
 
151
  




 Part IV.
 








 ITEM 15.
 
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
 
151
  

  2 


Table of Contents
PART I 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS  PrivateBancorp, Inc.  PrivateBancorp, Inc. (“PrivateBancorp,” we
or the “Company”), was incorporated in Delaware in 1989 and became a holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The PrivateBank and Trust Company (the “Bank” or the
“PrivateBank”), the bank subsidiary of PrivateBancorp, was opened in Chicago in 1991. The Bank provides customized business and personal financial services to middle market companies and business owners, executives, entrepreneurs and
families in all the markets and communities it serves.  Beginning in late 2007, we hired a team of experienced middle market
bankers and, under the leadership of our current chief executive officer, initiated a strategic plan to transform the organization into a leading middle market commercial bank. Over the past four years, we added nearly 1,000 new client
relationships, shifted the composition of our loan portfolio from 19% commercial and industrial and 66% commercial real estate and construction at December 31, 2007 to 60% commercial and industrial and 32% commercial real estate and
construction at December 31, 2011. Over this four year period, total assets have grown from $5.0 billion at December 31, 2007 to $12.4 billion at December 31, 2011, with total loans up from $4.2 billion at December 31, 2007 to
$9.0 billion at December 31, 2011. To support the growth and capital requirements of the organization, since December 31, 2007, we have issued approximately $560.1 million of voting and nonvoting common stock and $143.8 million of trust
preferred securities, as well as $243.8 million of preferred stock under the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury”) Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). 
Since we opened for business in Chicago in 1991, we have expanded into multiple geographic markets through the creation of new banks and
banking offices and the acquisition of existing banks. Today, we operate through a single bank subsidiary and serve seven geographic markets in the Midwest, as well as Denver and Atlanta. The majority of our business is conducted in the greater
Chicago market. We operate 18 full service branch locations in the Chicago market, 10 full service branch locations in the Atlanta, Detroit, Kansas City, Milwaukee and St. Louis markets and 5 business development offices in the Atlanta, Cleveland,
Denver, Des Moines and Minneapolis markets. We employed 1,045 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2011.  Business Focus and
Strategic Direction  Under the leadership of our current management team, our business model has emphasized
(1) building middle market commercial client relationships and selectively targeting clients within and outside our current market areas, (2) larger and varied commercial credits with increased diversification across industries,
(3) an expanded product suite of treasury management, capital markets and other fee generating services, (4) private banking and wealth management services and products, (5) developing enhanced risk management infrastructure and
(6) establishing a community banking platform.  We deliver a full spectrum of commercial and personal banking products
and services to our clients through our commercial banking, community banking and private wealth businesses. We leverage our model by introducing clients to a full range of lending, treasury management, and investment and capital markets products to
meet their commercial needs and residential mortgage banking, private banking, trust and investment services to meet their personal needs. Our goal is to be one of our clients’ primary banks, build a meaningful long-term relationship and
deliver services across our entire product spectrum. In addition, we have identified specific strategic initiatives to provide growth, promote efficiencies and drive non-interest income. They include (1) expanding our community banking efforts
by enhancing small-business banking and our retail branch networks through strategic acquisitions as they become available and (2) enhancing private wealth and residential mortgage banking. Set forth below is a summary of each of our business
areas, as well as our strategies.  Commercial Banking  Our commercial banking group focuses on the specific needs of middle market companies both in the Midwest, and, to a lesser extent, nationally. Our commercial loan portfolio includes lines of credit to
businesses for working capital needs, term loans, and letters of credit. Certain non-residential owner-occupied commercial real estate loans are included in our commercial loan portfolio where the cash flows from the owners’ businesses serve as
the primary source of loan repayment. 
  3 


Table of Contents
Illinois, Specialty and National Commercial Banking. The Illinois
commercial banking group targets primarily Illinois-based middle market clients with $10 million to $2 billion in revenue. Closely related to this group are select specialty banking groups focused on healthcare, architecture, engineering and
construction, asset-based lending, and security alarm finance. We believe it is appropriate to provide more individualized assistance to these niche clients due to their specific needs, which may differ from the needs of more general commercial
clients. The specialty groups employ bankers with many years of experience in these industries and market primarily to Illinois-based businesses, many of which have a national scope. The national commercial banking group manages middle market
commercial banking teams in the markets outside of Illinois in which we have branch banking operations – Atlanta, Detroit, Kansas City, Milwaukee and St. Louis. In these areas, we serve clients with $10 million to $2 billion in revenue. In our
business development markets – Cleveland, Denver, Des Moines and Minneapolis – we focus on companies with $50 million to $2 billion in revenue.  Commercial Real Estate. Our commercial real estate business focuses on the needs of commercial real estate professionals including professional commercial and residential real estate developers and
investors. The majority of our clients are based within our geographic footprint, though properties financed may be located in other regions. We provide funding for construction, acquisition, redevelopment, working capital, and refinancing of
retail, industrial, office and multifamily properties. Our commercial real estate specialists are located in the Chicago, Denver, Detroit, Milwaukee, Minneapolis and St. Louis markets. Given the challenges in the commercial real estate industry
during the past few years, we have reduced the size of our commercial real estate portfolio through selective exits and workouts/sales of commercial real estate credits. As of December 31, 2011, commercial real estate loans as a percentage of
total loans were 29%, a decrease from 32% as of December 31, 2010. However, we recognize the long term value in serving commercial real estate clients and will continue to provide products and services to these clients, taking appropriate risk
management into account. During the last quarter of 2011, we added a net $74.8 million in commercial real estate loans.  Treasury Management, Capital Markets and Syndications. We provide comprehensive services for commercial clients to manage their cash and liquidity, including: receivables and payables services,
reporting, reconciliation and data integration solutions and demand deposit account and/or investment options for optimizing balances. We assist clients with their unique financial markets and risk management objectives by providing interest rate
and foreign exchange services. With respect to interest rate hedging, we offer clients interest rate swaps, rate caps, floors and collars, rate swaptions and cancellable interest rate swaps. To assist clients with their currency management, we help
clients establish foreign exchange policy, budgeting, contract negotiation, risk management and research advisory services; foreign currency wire transfers, drafts, cash letter deposits and collections; and forwards, window forwards, swaps and
options. During 2011, we earned treasury management and capital market fees of $19.9 million and $19.3 million, respectively, representing an increase of 18% and 35%, respectively, over the prior year. 
As a function of our risk management efforts, our syndications team helps to manage large commitment levels and credit exposure
linked to individual client relationships. In larger transactions, the syndications team either fully underwrites loans (in which we lend the full amount but then syndicate portions of that loan to other banks) or we arrange the loan (in which we
commit only a portion of the total loan, pro-rata with other banks). In either instance, we receive an administrative agent or arranger’s fee plus interest on the loan. In addition, these transactions provide our client service teams the
opportunity to cross-sell other services and products to these clients. During 2011, the majority of the syndications led by the Bank related to loans under $50 million in total size and syndication fee revenue from these activities totaled $5.5
million. As of December 31, 2011, outstanding syndications within our total loan portfolio for transactions which we had arranged approximated $592 million.  Community Banking  Retail Banking. Community
banking targets Illinois personal clients with up to $250,000 in investable assets and lending needs of up to $3.5 million. Through a network of 18 branch locations in and around Chicago, community banking provides personal and business banking and
investing services including checking, savings, money market, certificates of deposit (“CDs”), home equity loans and lines of credit, business-specific banking and other tailored solutions. In prior years, community banking also originated
mortgages, but during 2011, as discussed below, we reorganized residential mortgage banking and centralized its management. As needed, community banking relationship managers refer mortgage clients to the residential mortgage banking team. As of
December 31, 2011, 13% of our total deposits were from community banking clients (approximately flat from the prior year) and approximately 20% of community banking’s accounts made up over 85% of its deposits. 
Central to our growth and diversification strategies are an expansion of our community banking business and the related branch networks
and community banking deposits. As discussed in more detail below under “Deposits,” client deposits represent our core funding source. However, given the commercial focus of our core business strategy, 82% of our current deposit base is
comprised of corporate accounts which are generally significantly larger than community deposits. Therefore, we will consider cost effective expansion of our branch network and related retail deposits in order to increase overall deposit funding (to
support further commercial loan activity) while simultaneously diversifying the current deposit mix (to decrease the commercial deposit concentration). 
  4 


Table of Contents
Given the number of stressed financial institutions within our markets, we may, from time to
time, consider strategic acquisitions that could assist us in diversifying our funding mix, decreasing the concentration of commercial deposits, and potentially supplementing our retail branch networks. The size of any potential acquisition would
depend on market factors at the time, including the risk profile, deposit base and branch network of a potential target, financing sources and our then-current stock price. There can be no assurances about whether any such acquisition will occur or,
if one does, about whether it will ultimately assist with the achievement of these goals.  Residential
Mortgage Banking. We offer a full range of residential mortgage loans for purchasing or refinancing 1-4 family residential properties. We generally use a correspondent model in which we originate loans, and sell the majority of these loans in
the secondary market, based on the underwriting standards of investors who then service them. For the loans we sell, we earn a one-time fee which is generally not greatly impacted by changes in interest rates. We originate and retain some mortgages
in our portfolio. These are generally jumbo mortgage loans with high credit-quality borrowers, or a small number of loans which our investors ultimately decide not to purchase. We do not service loans for other entities or purchase third party
originations at this time. In 2011, we originated approximately $315 million of first mortgage loans. During 2011, we centralized our mortgage operations team in one location, reorganized this business under new leadership and recruited experienced
mortgage loan officers from larger mortgage banking operations in Chicago, St. Louis and Detroit. We also invested in technological enhancements to strengthen the underwriting, processing and internal controls related to originations. Our ability to
increase fee revenue in this business is subject to the interest rate environment and the pressures of general business conditions, including the current depressed housing market with its weakened demand for mortgages and refinancings. As we further
develop our mortgage operations, we envision opportunities to cross-sell mortgage products to community banking’s retail and small-business clients.  Small-Business Banking. As part of community banking, small-business banking responds to the personal and corporate banking needs of small businesses, as well as their owners and executives, while
targeting commercial clients with business revenue up to $10 million. This group offers commercial lending and treasury management services and products similar to those of our commercial banking group, but of a smaller size. Historically, this
group has focused on clients in the Chicago area, but has recently expanded to Detroit. We may consider further expansion in other regions. Our strategy for small-business banking includes using our branch networks and our recently enhanced team of
business bankers to attract new small-business clients in order to diversify our loan portfolio and funding base. This client acquisition strategy includes targeted sales programs, marketing campaigns, community involvement and client referrals. To
the extent such individuals have significant personal assets; we refer such clients to our private wealth group and its dedicated team of private bankers. During 2010 and 2011, we hired an experienced leader and increased the number of business
bankers dedicated to small-business banking. As of December 31, 2011, small-business banking’s loan portfolio was approximately $143 million (representing 2% of our total loan portfolio at that time), including approximately $115 million
in covered loans. During 2011, small-business banking added 63 new client relationships. However, our limited retail branch network may limit growth opportunities in this business.  Private Wealth  Our private wealth group offers high net-worth
clients (those with more than $1 million in investable assets) private banking, investment management, trust and investment agency services. Most clients in this group are individuals, but we assist some corporate clients with liquidity management.
 Private Banking. Our private banking services include consumer loans and customized credit, such as
loans for individual and business purposes that are often secured by marketable securities. The private banking portion of our private wealth group also had a significant deposit base of approximately $861 million as of December 31, 2011.
 Trust and Investments. With respect to our trust and investment services, we act as fiduciary and
investment manager for individual and corporate clients which includes creating asset allocation strategies tailored to each client’s unique situation while using third-party investment managers to execute the overarching strategies. For
managed assets, we offer financial advice and act either in a trustee or agency capacity. We also provide custody, escrow, and tax-deferred exchange services. Custody services are considered non-managed in which we administer and safeguard assets
but do not provide financial advice. This group also provides some investment services, such as 401(k) rollovers, for retail clients through a third-party broker/dealer. Approximately 89% of our Trust and Investment fee revenue comes from fees
charged that are a percentage of the assets under management and administration. These fees are based on the market value of the assets on the last day of the prior month or quarter and are therefore subject to volatility. We also earn certain
non-recurring fees such as tax preparation fees, estate settlement and court-appointed guardian fees. Additionally, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we offer investment advisory services to individuals, families, and foundations with greater than
$500,000 of investable assets. This subsidiary creates its own asset allocation strategies independent of the private wealth group. We focus on cross-selling private wealth services across our lines of business to executives and business owners who
have a commercial banking relationship with us. As of December 31, 2011, our Trust and Investments group had approximately $4.3 billion in assets under management and administration. 
  5 


Table of Contents
In recent years, we streamlined private wealth by simplifying our product offerings and
reducing expenses. We also recruited a number of key experienced employees and, to increase internal business referrals, increased training and education around private wealth offerings for our relationship managers that interact with our clients on
a regular basis. We are now focusing our attention on the Chicago market and introducing private wealth products and services to existing clients within our commercial banking group, as well as attracting new clients. These efforts will depend in
large part on our ability to retain exceptional talent and upgrade technology in this quickly evolving climate.  Lending
Activities We provide a range of commercial, real estate and personal lending products and services to our clients. While
the majority of our client relationships today are Chicago-based, many of our clients do business around the country and we have loans secured by real estate in a number of other geographic regions. 
We have adopted comprehensive loan policies that include disciplined credit underwriting standards. The goal of our lending program is to
meet the credit needs of our diverse client base while using sound credit principles to protect our asset quality. We strive to provide a reliable source of credit, a variety of lending alternatives, and sound financial advice to our clients. When
extending credit, our decisions are based upon our client’s ability to repay the loan, as well as the value of any collateral securing the loan. Our assessment of the quality and integrity of the borrower are also key considerations in the loan
approval process. Our bankers monitor loan performance and maintain regular contact with our clients. Our credit risk management team actively manages and monitors the loan portfolio, including performing, nonperforming, and stressed credits, and
provides workout and nonperforming asset disposition-related activities.  In conjunction with our middle market strategy, our
lending activities may involve larger credit relationships. At December 31, 2011 and consistent with 2010, we had 78 unique obligors with credit commitments of $25 million or more totaling $2.5 billion, and with over 90% secured by collateral
at December 31, 2011. Of this total commitment, $1.1 billion, or 12% of our loan portfolio, has been used. The remaining $1.4 billion relates to unused or partially drawn commitments. Some of these obligors may be related to other obligors as
guarantors or share related ownership structures with other obligors. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Approximately 85% of these large obligors are commercial and industrial businesses; the
remaining exposure is related to commercial real estate loans. As measured by our internal risk rating system, this population of large obligors represents a higher level of credit quality than our total loan portfolio. Of our largest commitments,
five individual obligors have commitments of $50 million or more at December 31, 2011 totaling $302.5 million, compared to six individual obligors at December 31, 2010 totaling $362.5 million. However, only $15.0 million has been drawn on these
largest commitments at December 31, 2011, compared to $46.6 million at December 31, 2010.  Commercial 
At December 31, 2011, commercial loans, excluding commercial real estate loans discussed below, comprised 60% of our loan portfolio,
and include lines of credit, term loans, and letters of credit. Our commercial lines of credit typically are limited to a percentage of the value of the assets securing the line, and are typically priced by a floating rate formula. In general, lines
of credit are reviewed annually and are supported by accounts receivable, inventory and/or equipment. Depending on the risk profile of the borrower, we may require periodic aging of receivables, and inventory and equipment listings to verify the
quality of the borrowing base prior to advancing funds. Our term loans are typically secured by the assets of our clients’ businesses. Term loans typically have maturities between one to five years, with either floating or fixed rates of
interest. In certain circumstances, there may be an interest rate floor. We issue standby or performance letters of credit, and are able to service the international needs of our clients through correspondent banks. We use the same underwriting
standards for letters of credit and other unfunded commitments that we would use for funded loans.  Commercial loans contain
risks unique to the business and market of each borrower. In order to mitigate these risks, we seek to gain an understanding of the business and industry of each borrower; require appropriate reporting, financial, and/or operating covenants; and
regularly evaluate our collateral position. Our commercial lending underwriting process includes an evaluation of the borrower’s financial statements and projections with an emphasis on operating results, cash flow, liquidity and underwriting
ratios, as well as the collateral value, to determine the level of creditworthiness of the borrower. These loans may be secured by a first priority security interest in the assets of the borrower and may require the support of a personal guarantee
of one or more of the principals of the borrower. From a risk management standpoint, whether the commercial loans are originated within commercial banking or small- business banking, substantially the same credit policies are used. 
Commercial Real Estate  At December 31, 2011, commercial real estate loans comprised 29% of our loan portfolio. Our commercial real estate portfolio is comprised of loans secured by various types of collateral including 1-4
family non-owner occupied housing units located primarily in our target market areas, multi-family real estate, office buildings, warehouses, retail space, mixed use buildings, and vacant land, the bulk of which is held for long-term investment or
development. Commercial real estate loan concentrations by collateral type are monitored as part of our credit risk management process.  Risks inherent in real estate lending are related to the market value of the property taken as collateral, the underlying cash flows and documentation and the general economic condition of the market in
which the collateral is located. To mitigate these risks, we obtain and review appraisals of the property and we assess (a) the ability of the cash flow generated from the collateral property to service debt, (b) the significance of any
outside income of the borrower or income from other properties owned by the borrowers, and (c) the strength of guarantors, as applicable. 
Construction  At
December 31, 2011, construction loans comprised 3% of our loan portfolio. Our construction loan portfolio consists of single-family residential properties, multi-family properties, and commercial projects, and includes both investment
properties and properties that will be owner-occupied. As with commercial real estate loans, we monitor our construction loan concentrations as part of our risk management program. 
As a product segment, we believe construction loans have the highest inherent risk. We closely monitor the status of each construction
loan throughout its term to mitigate these risks. We also seek to manage these risks by, among other things, ensuring that the collateral value of the property throughout the construction process does not fall below acceptable levels, ensuring that
funds disbursed are within parameters set by the original construction budget, and properly documenting each construction draw. Typically, we require full investment of the borrower’s equity in construction projects prior to injecting our
funds. Generally, we do not allow borrowers to recoup their equity from the sale proceeds of a finished product, if applicable, until we have recovered our funds on the overall project. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Residential, Home Equity, and Personal 
At December 31, 2011, residential, home equity, and personal loans comprised 8% of our loan portfolio. 
Residential Mortgage. We have purchase and refinancing mortgage sales teams in each of the Chicago, St. Louis and
Detroit markets, and anticipate expanding residential mortgage sales teams into the Milwaukee, Kansas City and Atlanta markets in 2012. These residential mortgage loans are secured by 1-4 family residential properties generally located near our
mortgage sales centers; however, lending outside these areas can occur. The majority of 2011 originations have related to properties around our Chicago-area market. Because we sell the majority of the residential mortgage loans we originate, this
business has an overall relatively low credit risk profile. However, we make certain representations and warranties to the purchasers of the loans upon sale, many centering on the quality of our review and underwriting processes. If a borrower
defaults during the first twelve months of the loan or we are found to have breached these representations (for example, if we did not correctly adhere to the purchaser’s underwriting standards), we could be required to repurchase the
outstanding amount of the applicable loan. Because of this risk, we focus significant attention on the thoroughness of the origination processes. There were no losses arising from these limited recourse obligations in 2011 and losses in 2010 were
not material.  Other Consumer Loans. The majority of our other consumer loan portfolio is comprised of
home equity loans and lines of credit, and, to a lesser extent, car loans (mostly for used cars) and secured and unsecured consumer loans, often used to fund educational costs or to consolidate debt. Home equity loans and lines of credit are
generally secured by second mortgages on 1-4 family residential properties. Since we sell the majority of the residential mortgages we originate, we are often second lien holders on these properties. We do not sell the home equity loans or lines of
credit to investors. Other consumer loans include secured and unsecured consumer loans, the majority of which are term loans. Consumer loans generally have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields as compared to residential real estate
loans. Our personal loan portfolio consists largely of loans for investment asset acquisition (which may be secured by marketable or nonmarketable investment securities) and for general liquidity purposes, including lines of credit which may be
unsecured. Due to our client relationship focus, which includes lending to entrepreneurs, some of these loans can be sizeable. As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate amount of such personal loans was approximately 3% of total loans. 
For more information regarding the composition of our loan portfolio, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations – Loan Portfolio and Credit Quality” and Note 4 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and for information regarding our unfunded commitments, see
Note 19 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Deposits 
We rely on a relationship-driven approach to generate client deposits and regard client deposits as our primary
source of funding. Client deposits represented almost all of our total deposits at December 31, 2011 and 94% at December 31, 2010. Given the commercial focus of our core business strategy, a majority of our deposit base is comprised of
corporate accounts which are typically larger than retail accounts. We have built a suite of deposit and cash management products and services that support our efforts to attract and retain corporate client accounts. At both December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, we had 13 client relationships in which each had more than $75 million in deposits. These deposits totaled $2.2 billion, or 21% of total deposits at December 31, 2011 and $2.5 billion, or 24% of total deposits at December 31,
2010. A majority of the deposits greater than $75 million are from financial services-related businesses, including omnibus accounts from broker-dealer and mortgage companies representing underlying accounts of their customers that may be eligible
for pass-through deposit insurance limits. We had 32 client relationships at December 31, 2011 in which each had more than $50 million in total deposits, compared to 21 such relationships at December 31, 2010. These deposits totaled $3.3 billion, or
32% of total deposits and $3.0 billion, or 29% of total deposits at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, our ten largest depositor accounts totaled $1.9 billion, or 19% of total deposits, at December 31, 2011. Commercial deposits
are held in various deposit products we offer, including interest-bearing and non-interest bearing demand deposits,
CDARS®, savings and money market accounts. The CDARS® deposit program allows clients to obtain greater FDIC deposit insurance for time deposits in excess of the FDIC insurance limits. Through our community banking and
private wealth groups, we offer a variety of personal banking products, including checking, savings and money market accounts and CDs, which serve as an additional source of client deposits. 
We also maintain access to a number of wholesale funding sources including brokered deposits, which we utilize to
supplement our client deposits as needed to fund asset growth and manage liquidity. Brokered deposits, excluding client-related CDARS®, were less than 1% and 6% of total deposits at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
For information regarding our deposits, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations – Funding and Liquidity Management” and Note 9 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Investment Activities  We maintain a managed investment portfolio intended
to provide liquidity, maximize risk-adjusted total return, and provide a means to modify our asset/liability position as deemed appropriate. We invest primarily in residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations backed
by U.S. Government-owned agencies or issued by U.S. Government-sponsored enterprises 
  8 


Table of Contents

and bank-qualified tax-exempt obligations of state and local political subdivisions. Under our investment policy, we also may invest in U.S. Treasury, U.S. Agency or other securities. The
investment portfolio is one of the tools used to manage our net asset/liability position by countering the interest rate risk characteristics of the loan portfolio.  For information regarding our investment portfolio, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Investment Portfolio Management” and
Note 3 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Competition 
We do business in the highly competitive financial services industry. In each of our geographic markets, we compete for loans, deposits,
wealth management and other financial services and products with regional, national, and international commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banks, brokerage firms, money managers, and other providers of financial products and
services. The greater Chicago market is particularly competitive as a number of financial services companies are attempting to capitalize on opportunities in the commercial middle market space that have arisen as a result the fragmented nature of
the Chicago market and the dislocation of customers in the market as area banks have consolidated. Given current industry trends of reduced loan demand, we face pressure on pricing and loan terms for favorable lending relationships including
commercial relationships.  Many of the products within the financial services industry have become commoditized over the past
few years and therefore competition is very strong. Given the changing nature of the banking industry, we could experience new deposit competition from a variety of sources including investment banks and finance companies. For private wealth
services, we compete with local, regional and national brokerage firms, wealth consulting firms and investment managers, any of which may be either standalone entities or part of larger financial services institutions. Also, because private wealth
does not create or offer its own propriety investment products, we are not incentivized to encourage clients to purchase our product, thereby enhancing the independent nature of our advice. In mortgage banking, we compete not only with commercial
banks, both large and small, that have operations in our locations, but also with mortgage brokers of various sizes. In all areas, we work to distinguish ourselves through consistent delivery of superior levels of personal service, customized
solutions and responsiveness expected by our clients.  Some of our competitors are not subject to the same degree of
regulation as that imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state chartered banks, national banks and federal savings banks, and may be able to price loans, deposits and other products and services more aggressively. 
We face competition in attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete effectively will depend upon the
ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees.  Segments 
For information regarding our business segments, which include Banking, (commercial banking, community banking and the private banking
business within private wealth), Trust and Investments and Holding Company Activities, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Operating Segments Results” and Note 21 of “Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 
General  Banking is a
highly regulated industry. The following is a summary of certain aspects of various statutes and regulations applicable to PrivateBancorp and its subsidiaries. These summaries are not complete, however, and you should refer to the statutes and
regulations for more information. Also, these statutes and regulations may change, or additional statutes or regulations could be adopted, in the future and we cannot predict what effect these changes or new statutes or regulations, if any, could
have on our business or revenues. The supervision, regulation and examination of banks and bank holding companies by bank regulatory agencies are intended primarily for the protection of customers and the banking system in the United States. As
such, actions taken by bank regulatory agencies may conflict with or be adverse to the interests of the stockholders of banks and bank holding companies. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Bank Holding Company Regulation 
PrivateBancorp is registered as a bank holding company with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”)
pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder are collectively referred to as the “BHC Act”), and we are subject to regulation,
supervision and examination by the FRB.  Minimum Capital Requirements. The FRB has adopted risk-based capital
requirements for assessing bank holding company capital adequacy. These standards define capital and establish minimum capital ratios in relation to assets, both on an aggregate basis and as adjusted for credit risks and off-balance sheet exposures.
Under the FRB’s risk-based guidelines, capital is classified into two categories, Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.  For bank
holding companies, Tier 1 capital, or core capital, consists of the following items, all of which are subject to certain conditions and limitations: common stockholders’ equity and retained earnings; qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred
stock including related surplus and senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the Treasury under its Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) including related surplus; qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock including related
surplus subject to certain limitations; qualifying trust preferred securities; minority interests in the common equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries; and is reduced by goodwill, specified intangible assets, and certain other assets. For bank
holding companies, Tier 2 capital, or supplementary capital, consists of the following items, all of which are subject to certain conditions and limitations: the allowance for loan losses; perpetual preferred stock and related surplus; hybrid
capital instruments, perpetual debt and mandatory convertible debt securities; unrealized holding gains on equity securities; and term subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock. 
Under the FRB’s capital guidelines, bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to
risk-weighted assets of 8%, of which at least 4% must be in the form of Tier 1 capital. The FRB has established a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 3% for strong bank holding companies (those rated a composite “1”
under the FRB’s rating system). For all other bank holding companies, the minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets is 4%. In addition, the FRB continues to consider the Tier 1 leverage ratio (after deducting all intangibles) in
evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.  Under its capital adequacy guidelines, the FRB emphasizes that the
foregoing standards are supervisory minimums and that banking organizations generally are expected to operate above the minimum ratios. These guidelines also state that banking organizations experiencing growth, whether internally or by making
acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum levels. The FRB may also require a banking organization to maintain capital above the minimum levels based on factors such as the organization’s
financial condition or anticipated growth. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act (as defined and discussed more fully below) requires the adoption of new capital regulations that are required to be, at a minimum, as stringent as current capital and
leverage requirements and may limit the use of subordinated debt or similar instruments to meet capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act also disallows future issuances of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 qualifying capital, although our
currently outstanding trust preferred securities have been grandfathered for Tier 1 eligibility. See the “Supervision and Regulation – Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” section in Item 1,
“Business” for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act.  As of December 31, 2011, our total
risk-based capital ratio was 14.28%, our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 12.38% and our leverage ratio was 11.33%. See the “Capital – Capital Management – Capital Measurements” section in Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information regarding our capital ratios and the minimum
regulatory guidelines.  Source of Strength. Under a longstanding policy of the FRB, a bank holding company is expected
to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries and to commit resources to support them. The FRB takes the position that in implementing this policy, it may require a bank holding company to provide financial
support to its subsidiaries at times it deems appropriate.  Acquisitions and Activities. The BHC Act requires prior FRB
approval for, among other things, the acquisition by a bank holding company of direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any bank, or for a merger or consolidation of a bank
holding company with another bank holding company. With limited exceptions, the BHC Act prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of voting shares of any company that is not a bank or bank holding
company and from engaging directly or indirectly in any activity other than banking or managing or controlling banks or performing services for its authorized subsidiaries. A bank holding company may, however, engage in or acquire an interest in a
company that engages in activities that the FRB has determined, by regulation or order, to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, such as owning and operating a savings association,
performing functions or activities that may be performed by a trust company, owning a mortgage company, or acting as an investment or financial advisor. The FRB, as a matter of policy, may require a bank holding company to be well capitalized at the
time of filing an acquisition application and upon consummation of the acquisition. 
  10 


Table of Contents
The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act allows bank holding companies that are in compliance with certain
requirements to elect to become “financial holding companies.” Financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of activities than is otherwise permitted for bank holding companies. At this time, PrivateBancorp has not elected to
become a financial holding company.  Redemptions. Under the BHC Act, bank holding companies are required to provide the
FRB with prior written notice of any purchase or redemption of their outstanding equity securities if the gross consideration for the purchase or redemption, when combined with the net consideration paid for all such purchases or redemptions during
the preceding twelve months is equal to 10% or more of their consolidated net worth. The FRB may disapprove such a purchase or redemption if it determines that the proposal would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or would violate any law,
regulation, FRB order, or any condition imposed by or written agreement with the FRB. This prior notice requirement does not apply to any bank holding company that meets certain well capitalized and well managed standards and is not subject to any
unresolved supervisory issues.  Under provisions of the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) (as more
fully discussed below under “2008 Emergency Economic Stabilization Act”), bank holding companies which sold equity securities to the Treasury under the CPP are generally prohibited, provided that such securities remain outstanding, from
acquiring or redeeming their common, preferred or trust preferred securities for three years, without the consent of the Treasury. Pursuant to our participation in the CPP, as discussed below, our ability to repurchase equity securities without
prior Treasury approval was restricted until January 30, 2012. This CPP restriction on stock repurchases is no longer applicable to the Company; however, the Company continues to be subject to the limitation on stock repurchases described in
the preceding paragraph.  Tie-in Arrangements. Under the BHC Act and FRB regulations, we are prohibited from engaging
in tie-in arrangements in connection with an extension of credit, lease, or sale of property or furnishing of services. Accordingly, we may not condition a client’s purchase of one of our services on the purchase of another service, except with
respect to traditional banking products.  Interstate Banking and Branching Legislation. Under the Riegle-Neal
Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Interstate Banking Act”), bank holding companies that are well capitalized and managed are allowed to acquire banks across state lines subject to certain limitations. States may
prohibit interstate acquisitions of banks that have not been in existence for at least five years. The FRB is prohibited from approving an application for acquisition if the applicant controls more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured
depository institutions nationwide. In addition, interstate acquisitions may also be subject to statewide concentration limits. 
Furthermore, under the Interstate Banking Act, banks are permitted, under some circumstances, to merge with one another across state
lines and thereby create a main bank with branches in separate states. Approval of interstate bank mergers is subject to certain conditions, including: well capitalized and well managed standards, CRA compliance and deposit concentration limits,
compliance with federal and state antitrust laws and compliance with applicable state consumer protection laws. After establishing branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, a bank may establish and acquire additional branches at
any location in the state where any bank involved in the interstate merger could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal and state law. In addition, the Interstate Banking Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, also now
permits a bank, with the approval of the appropriate federal and state bank regulatory agencies, to establish a de novo branch in a state other than the bank’s home state if the law of the state in which the branch is to be located would permit
establishment of the branch if the out of state bank were a state bank chartered by such state.  Ownership Limitations.
Under the Federal Change in Bank Control Act, a person may be required to obtain the prior regulatory approval of the FRB before acquiring the power to directly or indirectly control the management, operations or policies of PrivateBancorp or before
acquiring control of 10% or more of any class of our outstanding voting stock. Under the Illinois Banking Act, any acquisition of PrivateBancorp stock that results in a change in control may require prior approval of the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation.  Dividends. The FRB has issued an updated policy statement on the payment of
cash dividends by bank holding companies. In the policy statement, the FRB expressed its view that a bank holding company should inform the FRB and should eliminate, defer or severely limit the payment of dividends if (i) the bank holding
company’s net income for the past four quarters is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (ii) the bank holding company’s prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with the bank holding company’s capital needs
and overall current and prospective financial condition; or (iii) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. The policy statement also provides that the FRB should be
informed in advance prior to declaring or paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period (e.g., quarter) for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in a material adverse change to the organization’s capital structure.
Additionally, the FRB possesses enforcement powers over bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries to prevent or remedy actions that represent unsafe or unsound practices or violations of applicable statutes and regulations. Among these
powers is the ability to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends. We provide notice to and obtain approval from the FRB before declaring or paying any dividends. 
  11 


Table of Contents
In addition to the restrictions on dividends imposed by the FRB, Delaware law also places
limitations on the ability of a corporation to pay dividends. Corporations may only pay dividends out of surplus or net profits in accordance with Delaware law. The ability of a holding company to pay dividends may also depend on the receipt of
dividends from its banking subsidiaries. During 2009, 2010 and 2011, we did not receive any dividends from our banking subsidiaries and we were dependent upon the capital maintained at the holding company level to pay dividends. 
Bank Regulation  Our
subsidiary bank, the Bank, is subject to extensive supervision and regulation by various federal and state authorities. Additionally, as an affiliate of the Bank, PrivateBancorp is also subject, to some extent, to regulation by the Bank’s
supervisory and regulatory authorities. The Bank is an Illinois state-chartered bank and as such, is subject to supervision and examination by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation and, as a FRB non-member bank, its
primary federal regulator, the FDIC.  Regulatory Approvals and Enforcement. Federal and state laws require banks to
seek approval by the appropriate federal or state banking agency (or agencies) for any merger and/or consolidation by or with another depository institution, as well as for the establishment or relocation of any bank or branch office and, in some
cases to engage in new activities or form subsidiaries.  Federal and state statutes and regulations provide the appropriate
bank regulatory agencies with great flexibility and powers to undertake enforcement actions against financial institutions, holding companies or persons regarded as “institution affiliated parties.” Possible enforcement actions range from
the imposition of a capital plan and capital directive to a cease and desist order, civil money penalties, receivership, conservatorship or the termination of deposit insurance. 
Transactions with Affiliates. Federal and state statutes place certain restrictions and limitations on transactions between banks
and their affiliates, which include holding companies. Among other provisions, these laws place restrictions upon:   


 
•
 
 extensions of credit by an insured financial institution to the bank holding company and any non-banking affiliates; 


 
•
 
 the purchase by an insured financial institution of assets from affiliates; 


 
•
 
 the issuance by an insured financial institution of guarantees, acceptances or letters of credit on behalf of affiliates; and



 
•
 
 investments by an insured financial institution in stock or other securities issued by affiliates or acceptance thereof as collateral for an
extension of credit.  Permissible Activities, Investments and Other Restrictions. Federal and state
laws provide extensive limitations on the types of activities in which our subsidiary bank may engage and the types of investments it may make. For example, banks are subject to restrictions with respect to engaging in securities activities, real
estate development activities and insurance activities and may invest only in certain types and amounts of securities and may invest only up to certain dollar amount thresholds in their premises. 
Monetary Policy. The Bank is affected by the credit policies of the FRB, which regulate the national supply of bank credit. Such
regulation influences overall growth of bank loans, investments and deposits and may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The FRB’s monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of
commercial banks in the past and this trend is likely to continue in the future.  Dividends. Federal and state laws
restrict and limit the dividends the Bank may pay. Under the Illinois Banking Act, the Bank, while continuing to operate a banking business, may not pay dividends of an amount greater than its current net profits after deducting losses and bad
debts. For the purpose of determining the amount of dividends that an Illinois bank may pay, bad debts are defined as debts upon which interest is past due and unpaid for a period of six months or more unless such debts are well secured and in the
process of collection.  In addition to the foregoing, the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends may be affected by
the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvements Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), as described below. 
Reserve Requirements. Our subsidiary bank is subject to FRB regulations requiring depository institutions to maintain
non-interest-earning reserves against its transaction accounts. For net transaction accounts in 2012, the first $11.5 million of a bank’s transaction accounts (subject to adjustments by the FRB) are exempt from the reserve requirements. The FRB
regulations generally require 3% 
  12 


Table of Contents

reserves on a bank’s transaction accounts totaling between $11.5 million and $71.0 million. For transaction accounts totaling over $71.0 million, FRB regulations require reserves of $1.8
million plus 10% of the amount over $71.0 million.  Cross-Guaranty. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDI
Act”), an insured institution that is commonly controlled with another insured institution shall generally be liable for losses incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of such commonly
controlled insured institution, or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to such commonly controlled institution, which is in danger of default.  Standards for Safety and Soundness. The FDI Act, as amended by FDICIA and the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, requires the FDIC, together with the other federal
bank regulatory agencies, to prescribe standards of safety and soundness, by regulations or guidelines, relating generally to operations and management, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, stock valuation and compensation. The federal bank
regulatory agencies have adopted a set of guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards pursuant to FDICIA. The guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan
documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures
specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive
officer, employee, director or principal stockholder. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, the agencies to order an institution that has been given notice that it is not satisfying
the safety and soundness guidelines to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted compliance plan, the agency must
issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of FDICIA. If an
institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce its order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. The federal bank regulatory agencies have also adopted guidelines for asset quality and earning
standards. State-chartered banks may also be subject to state statutes, regulations and guidelines relating to safety and soundness, in addition the federal requirements.  Capital Requirements and Prompt Corrective Action. FDICIA defines five capital levels: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,”
“significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.”  FDICIA requires the federal banking
regulators to take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that fall below minimum capital standards and prohibits any depository institution from making any capital distribution that would cause it to be undercapitalized.
Institutions that are not adequately capitalized may be subject to a variety of supervisory actions, including restrictions on growth, investment activities, capital distributions and affiliate transactions, and will be required to submit a capital
restoration plan which, to be accepted by the regulators, must be guaranteed in part by any company having control of the institution (for example, the company or a stockholder controlling the company). In other respects, FDICIA provides for
enhanced supervisory authority, including greater authority for the appointment of a conservator or receiver for critically undercapitalized institutions. The capital-based prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA and its implementing
regulations apply to FDIC-insured depository institutions. However, federal banking agencies have indicated that, in regulating bank holding companies, the agencies may take appropriate action at the holding company level based on their assessment
of the effectiveness of supervisory actions imposed upon subsidiary insured depository institutions pursuant to the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA. State-chartered banks may also be subject to similar supervisory actions by their
respective state banking agencies.  Insurance of Deposit Accounts. Under FDICIA, as a FDIC-insured institution, the
Bank is required to pay deposit insurance premiums based on the risk it poses to the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). The FDIC has authority to raise or lower assessment rates on insured deposits in order to achieve required ratios in the
insurance fund and to impose special additional assessments. To determine an institution’s assessment rate, each insured institution is placed in a risk category using a two-step process based on capital and supervisory information. 
Each insured institution is assigned to one of the following three capital groups: “well capitalized,” “adequately
capitalized” or “undercapitalized.” Each insured institution is then assigned one of three supervisory ratings: “A” (institutions with few minor weaknesses), “B” (institutions which demonstrate weaknesses which, if
not corrected, could result in significant deterioration of the institution and increased risk of loss to DIF) or “C” (institutions that pose a substantial probability of loss to DIF unless effective corrective action is taken). Insured
institutions classified as strongest by the FDIC are subject to the lowest insurance rate; insured institutions classified as weakest by the FDIC are subject to the highest insurance assessment rate. 
In October 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan to reestablish the DIF to the statutory required minimum percentage of deposits,
and has amended the plan from time to time thereafter. As part of the restoration plan, the FDIC increased risk-based assessment rates. In November 2009, the FDIC approved a final rule that required insured institutions to prepay their estimated
quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments were 
  13 


Table of Contents

recorded as a prepaid expense against which future quarterly assessments are applied. In 2009 we paid $57.0 million in deposit insurance prepayments through 2012. Depending on our performance,
any growth and other factors, this prepayment may be more or less than the aggregate insurance assessments through 2012.  In
February 2011, the FDIC approved final rules amending the deposit insurance assessment regulations. The rules implement a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that broadens the assessment base from one based on domestic deposits to one based on total
assets less average tangible equity. In addition to broadening the assessment base, the rules establish a separate risk-based assessment system for “large institutions” with more than $10 billion in assets and for other large, highly
complex institutions. Prior to the rules taking effect, the rate for insured institutions are assessed based primarily on capital and supervisory information, including examination ratings and certain other factors as described above. The rules
eliminate the existing risk categories for large institutions and make the assessment rate a function of examination ratings, a performance component, which is designed to assess the institution’s financial performance and ability to withstand
stress, a loss severity component, which is designed to assess the level of potential loss in a failure scenario, and other factors and considerations. Under the rules, large institutions are subject to different minimum and maximum total assessment
rate ranges. The ranges are subject to certain adjustments by the FDIC without further rulemaking. The FDIC intends for the new large bank pricing system to result in higher assessments for banks with high-risk asset concentrations, less stable
balance sheet liquidity, or potentially higher loss severity in the event of failure. The rules took effect April 1, 2011 and impacted assessments in the second quarter of 2011. 
Pursuant to the 2008 Emergency Economic Stabilization Act and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (each as described more
fully below), the maximum deposit insurance on qualifying accounts was increased from $100,000 to $250,000 until December 31, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the maximum deposit insurance on qualifying accounts to $250,000.
Deposit insurance may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that an institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or
condition imposed by the FDIC. Such terminations can only occur, if contested, following judicial review through the federal courts. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance for the
Bank.  The Dodd-Frank Act also raised the minimum reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits,
which ratio is required to be attained by September 30, 2020, eliminated the size limit of the DIF, and directed the FDIC to issue a rule establishing a new designated reserve ratio. Pursuant to this directive, the FDIC recently issued a rule
setting a designated reserve ratio at 2.0% of insured deposits. These policies may result in increased assessments on certain institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. 
See the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” below for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank
Act.  Community Reinvestment. Under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), a financial institution has a
continuing and affirmative obligation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, or limit
an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community. However, institutions are rated on their performance in meeting the needs of their communities. Performance
is tested in three areas: (a) lending, to evaluate the institution’s lending performance, particularly to low- and moderate income individuals and neighborhoods and small businesses in its assessment areas; (b) investment, to evaluate
the institution’s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs benefiting low-income or moderate-income individuals and small businesses; and (c) service, to evaluate the institution’s
delivery of products and services through its branches, and automated teller machines as well as its service to the community. The CRA requires each federal banking agency, in connection with its examination of a financial institution, to assess and
assign one of four ratings to the institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by the institution, including applications for charters, branches
and other deposit facilities, relocations, mergers, consolidations, acquisitions of assets or assumptions of liabilities, and savings and loan holding company acquisitions. The CRA also requires that all institutions make public disclosure of their
CRA ratings. The Bank was assigned a “satisfactory” rating at its most recent CRA examinations.  Anti-Money
Laundering & OFAC Sanctions Programs. The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist
financing. Financial institutions are required to establish programs designed to implement BSA requirements that include: verifying customer identification, reporting certain large cash transactions, responding to requests for information by law
enforcement agencies, and monitoring, investigating and reporting suspicious transactions or activity. The Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) enforces economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and
national security goals against entities such as targeted foreign countries, terrorists, international narcotics traffickers, and those engaged in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We are subject to these rules and have implemented
policies, procedures and controls to comply with the anti-money laundering regulations and the OFAC sanctions programs. 
  14 


Table of Contents
Compliance with Consumer Protection Laws. Our bank is subject to many state and
federal statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers, such as, CRA, the Truth in Lending Act (Regulation Z), the Truth in Savings Act (Regulation DD), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Regulation B), the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (Regulation C) and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act. Among other things, these statutes and regulations: 
 


 
•
 
 require lenders to disclose credit terms in meaningful and consistent ways; 


 
•
 
 prohibit discrimination against an applicant in any consumer or business credit transaction; 


 
•
 
 prohibit discrimination in housing-related lending activities; 


 
•
 
 require certain lenders to collect and report applicant and borrower data regarding loans for home purchases or improvement projects;



 
•
 
 require lenders to provide borrowers with information regarding the nature and cost of real estate settlements; 


 
•
 
 prohibit certain lending practices and limit escrow account amounts with respect to real estate transactions; 


 
•
 
 require financial institutions to implement identity theft prevention programs and measures to protect the confidentiality of consumer financial
information; and 


 
•
 
 prescribe possible penalties for violations of the requirements of consumer protection statutes and regulations. 
As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the newly established Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “Bureau”) now has authority
for amending existing federal consumer compliance regulations and implementing new such regulations. In addition, the Bureau has responsibility for examining the compliance of financial institutions with assets in excess of $10 billion, such as the
Bank, with these consumer protection rules.  Real Estate Lending Concentrations. The FDIC, FRB and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency have issued guidance on concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance reinforces and enhances existing regulations and guidelines for safe and sound real estate lending. The guidance provides supervisory
criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The guidance focuses on institutions properly
identifying whether they have a commercial real estate concentration and, if so, instituting the appropriate risk management procedures and increasing capital so that it is commensurate with the risk of having such a concentration. 
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. In December 2006, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued an Interagency Policy Statement
revising their previous policy on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (“ALLL”), which was issued in 1993. The policy statement was updated to ensure consistency with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”)
and post-1993 supervisory guidance. According to the revised policy statement, the ALLL represents one of the most significant estimates in an institution’s financial statements and regulatory reports. Because of its significance, each
institution has a responsibility for developing, maintaining and documenting a comprehensive, systematic, and consistently applied process appropriate to its size and the nature, scope, and risk of its lending activities for determining the amounts
of the ALLL and the provision for loan and lease losses.  The policy statement provides that to fulfill this responsibility,
each institution should ensure controls are in place to consistently determine the ALLL in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the institution’s stated policies and procedures, management’s best judgment and relevant supervisory guidance.
Consistent with long-standing supervisory guidance, the policy states that institutions must maintain an ALLL at a level that is appropriate to cover estimated credit losses on individually evaluated loans determined to be impaired as well as
estimated credit losses inherent in the remainder of the loan and lease portfolio. Estimates of credit losses should reflect consideration of all significant factors that affect the collectability of loans in the portfolio as of the evaluation date.
Arriving at an appropriate allowance involves a high degree of management judgment and results in a range of estimated losses.  2008
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act  On October 3, 2008, the U.S. Congress enacted the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act (“EESA”). EESA authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase up to $700 billion in troubled assets from qualifying financial institutions pursuant to the TARP. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury, pursuant to
its authority under EESA, announced the CPP. Pursuant to the CPP, qualifying public financial institutions could issue senior preferred stock to the Treasury in an amount not less than 1% of risk-weighted assets and not more than 3% of risk-weighted
assets or $25 billion, whichever is less. The proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock are included in the financial institution’s Tier 1 capital. The senior preferred stock pays a 5% dividend per annum until the fifth year of the
investment and 9% per annum thereafter. In addition to the senior preferred stock, participating public financial institutions must issue a warrant to the Treasury for the purchase of common stock in an amount equal to 15% of the preferred
stock investment. The Treasury will not exercise any voting rights with respect to the common shares acquired through the exercise of the warrants. Financial institutions participating in the CPP must agree and comply with certain restrictions,
including restrictions on redemption, 
  15 


Table of Contents

dividends, repurchases and executive compensation, as discussed below. Finally, the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the CPP to comply with changes in applicable federal statutes.
 Redemption. The terms of the CPP contained restrictions on the redemption of the Treasury’s preferred stock
investment. These restrictions on redemptions were modified on February 17, 2009, in connection with enactment of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Recovery Act”) (discussed below). 
Dividends. Prior to the third anniversary of the investment or the date on which the Treasury’s senior preferred stock
investment has been fully redeemed or transferred, the financial institution may not increase common dividends beyond certain levels without the Treasury’s consent. As noted above, as of January 30, 2012, the foregoing restriction is no
longer applicable to PrivateBancorp. In addition, the financial institution may not pay dividends on common stock unless the financial institution has paid dividends on the preferred stock. If the financial institution does not pay dividends on the
senior preferred stock for six dividend periods, the Treasury will have the right to elect two members to the board of directors.  Repurchases. Prior to the third anniversary of the investment or the date on which the Treasury’s senior preferred stock investment has been fully redeemed or transferred, the financial
institution may not repurchase other equity securities or trust preferred securities without the Treasury’s consent, except repurchases in the ordinary course related to employee benefit plans in a manner consistent with past practice, certain
market-making and related transactions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the financial institution, certain custodian or trustee transactions for another beneficial owner, or certain agreements pre-dating participation in the CPP. As noted above, as
of January 30, 2012, the foregoing restriction is no longer applicable to PrivateBancorp.  Executive Compensation.
Participating financial institutions must modify certain senior executive compensation agreements consistent with EESA, which generally prohibits incentive compensation agreements that encourage senior executive officers to take unnecessary and
excessive risks. In addition, incentive compensation paid to senior executive officers must be recovered if such payments are subsequently determined to be based upon materially inaccurate financial results (i.e., a “clawback” provision).
Participating financial institutions are prohibited from making golden parachute payments to senior executive officers and are required to limit the federal tax deduction for compensation paid to senior executive officers to $500,000. For this
purpose, “senior executive officer” means an individual who is one of the executives whose compensation is required to be disclosed pursuant to the Exchange Act. As discussed below, these executive compensation restrictions were further
expanded by the Recovery Act.  On January 30, 2009, PrivateBancorp closed a transaction with the Treasury in order to
participate in the CPP. PrivateBancorp issued preferred stock to the Treasury equal to $243.8 million and a warrant to purchase shares of common stock at an exercise price of $28.35. As a result of the completion of two “qualified equity
offerings” in 2009, pursuant to which we received aggregate gross proceeds in excess of $243.8 million, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant was reduced by 50% from 1,290,026 to 645,013 shares. Pursuant to
its participation in the CPP, PrivateBancorp is subject to the provisions therein.  American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
 On February 17, 2009, the Recovery Act was signed into law. Included among the many provisions of the Recovery Act
are restrictions affecting financial institutions who are participants in the TARP, which are set forth in the form of amendments to the EESA. These amendments provide that during the period in which any obligation under the TARP remains outstanding
(other than obligations relating to outstanding warrants), TARP recipients are subject to appropriate standards for executive compensation and corporate governance which were set forth in an interim final rule regarding TARP standards for
Compensation and Corporate Governance, issued by the Treasury and effective on June 15, 2009 (“Interim Final Rule”). Among the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions included in the Recovery Act and the Interim
Final Rule are the following:   


 
•
 
 an incentive compensation “clawback” provision to cover “senior executive officers” (defined in this instance and below to mean
the “named executive officers” for whom compensation disclosure is provided in the company’s proxy statement) and the next 20 most highly compensated employees; 


 
•
 
 a prohibition on certain golden parachute payments to cover any payment related to a departure for any reason (with limited exceptions) made to any
senior executive officer (as defined above) and the next five most highly compensated employees; 


 
•
 
 a limitation on incentive compensation paid or accrued to the five most highly compensated employees of the financial institution, subject to
limited exceptions for pre-existing arrangements set forth in written employment contracts executed on or prior to February 11, 2009, and certain awards of restricted stock which may not exceed one-third of annual compensation, are subject to a
two-year holding period and cannot be transferred until the Treasury’s preferred stock is redeemed (the amount of such stock which may be transferred is based on the amount of TARP CPP preferred stock that is
redeemed);
  16 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 a requirement that the company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer provide in annual securities filings, a written
certification of compliance with the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of the Interim Final Rule; 


 
•
 
 an obligation for the compensation committee of the board of directors to evaluate with the company’s chief risk officer certain compensation
plans to ensure that such plans do not encourage unnecessary or excessive risks or the manipulation of reported earnings; 


 
•
 
 a requirement that companies adopt a company-wide policy regarding excessive or luxury expenditures; 


 
•
 
 a requirement that companies permit a separate, non-binding shareholder vote to approve the compensation of executives; and



 
•
 
 a provision that allows the Treasury to review compensation paid prior to enactment of the Recovery Act to senior executive officers and the next 20
most highly-compensated employees to determine whether any payments were inconsistent with the executive compensation restrictions of the EESA, as amended, TARP or otherwise contrary to the public interest. 
In addition, companies who have issued preferred stock to the Treasury under TARP are now permitted to redeem such investments at any
time, subject to consultation with banking regulators. Upon such redemption, the warrants may be immediately liquidated by the Treasury. 
FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program  In October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system. The program was comprised of two
voluntary components: the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”) and the Debt Guarantee Program (“DGP”).  Transaction Account Guarantee Program. Pursuant to the TAGP, the FDIC fully insured, without limit, qualifying transaction accounts held at qualifying depository institutions through
December 31, 2010. Qualifying transaction accounts included non-interest-bearing transaction accounts, Interest on Lawyers Trust Accounts (“IOLTAs”) and Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (“NOW”) accounts with interest rates
less than 0.5%. The FDIC assessed a fee equal to 10 basis points on transaction account deposit balances in excess of the $250,000 insured limit, which was subsequently increased to 15 to 25 basis points depending upon an institution’s deposit
insurance assessment risk category. As provided by the Dodd-Frank Act, as discussed below, the FDIC will insure the full balance of non-interest bearing transaction accounts, including IOLTAs but not NOW accounts, through December 31, 2012,
replacing the TAGP at the end of 2010. Beginning on January 1, 2013, non-interest bearing transaction accounts will be insured under the FDIC’s general deposit insurance coverage rules. 
Debt Guarantee Program. Pursuant to the DGP, eligible entities were permitted to issue FDIC-guaranteed senior unsecured debt in an
amount up to 125% of the entity’s senior unsecured debt outstanding as of September 30, 2008. PrivateBancorp has not issued any guaranteed debt under the DGP.  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act  On
July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act which has already significantly changed the financial regulatory landscape and will continue to affect the operating activities of financial institutions and their holding
companies, as well as others. Although many of the details of the Dodd-Frank Act, and the full impact it will have on financial institutions and their holding companies, are uncertain at this point, in part because many of the provisions require the
adoption of implementing rules and regulations, changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act and the expected burden of compliance with the new law and its rules and regulations could increase operating costs and reduce revenues of financial institutions
and their holding companies. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act provisions discussed above, the Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions that, among other things:   


 
•
 
 Direct the federal bank regulatory agencies to review and propose new capital requirements applicable to banking institutions (such new capital
standards applicable to the Bank have not yet been established by the regulatory agencies). The regulations are required to be, at a minimum, as stringent as current capital and leverage requirements and may limit the use of subordinated debt or
similar instruments to meet capital requirements. 


 
•
 
 Provide that any trust preferred securities and certain hybrid securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 will be considered Tier 2 and not
Tier 1 capital. Any trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 by banks with assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. Any trust preferred securities issued prior to
May 19, 2010 by banks with assets greater than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital until January 2013; at that time, the treatment of the trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital will be
phased out over a three year period ending in January 2016. Our currently outstanding trust preferred securities are grandfathered for Tier 1 eligibility. 
  17 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Require regulatory agencies to make capital requirements for bank holding companies countercyclical, so that capital requirements increase in times
of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. 


 
•
 
 Require financial institutions, with more than $10 billion in assets, such as the Bank, to conduct annual stress tests in accordance with
regulations to be issued by the federal bank regulatory agencies. On January 23, 2012, the FDIC issued a proposed rule, subject to public comment (the “Proposed Rule”) requiring state nonmember banks and savings associations, with
total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion, to conduct three annual stress tests based on baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The Proposed Rule requires each covered institution to calculate, based on specific scenarios to be
developed by the FDIC and provided to the covered institution, the impact on each institution’s potential losses, pre-provision revenues, loan loss reserves, and pro forma capital positions, including the impact on capital levels and ratios,
during the specified time period. In addition, the Proposed Rule requires covered institutions to disclose the results of their stress tests to the FDIC and a summary of such results to the public. The Proposed Rule’s public comment period ends
on March 23, 2012. 


 
•
 
 Increase the regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions. The regulations are expected to impose additional reporting and monitoring
requirements, require higher capital and margin requirements and require that certain trades be executed through clearinghouses. 


 
•
 
 Centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Bureau, responsible for implementing, examining, and
enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws. The Bureau will have broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or
abusive” acts and practices. Among other things, it is anticipated that the Bureau may consider significant reforms in the mortgage industry. 


 
•
 
 Create the Financial Stability Oversight Council that will recommend to the FRB increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk
management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity. 


 
•
 
 Include mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer’s ability to repay and making more loans subject to restrictions applicable to higher
cost loans and new disclosures. In addition, certain compensation for mortgage brokers based on certain loan terms has been prohibited (e.g. compensation based on yield spread premiums). 


 
•
 
 Require financial institutions to make a reasonable and good faith determination that borrowers have the ability to repay loans for which they
apply. If a financial institution fails to make such a determination, a borrower can assert this failure as a defense to foreclosure. 


 
•
 
 Require financial institutions to retain a specified percentage of certain non-traditional mortgage loans and other assets in the event that they
seek to securitize such assets. 


 
•
 
 Implement corporate governance revisions, including with regard to executive compensation, say on pay votes, proxy access by shareholders and
“clawback” policies which apply to all public companies, not just financial institutions. 
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Although its impact on the implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act
remains unclear, the U.S. federal banking agencies have expressed support for recently issued proposals by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly referred to as “Basel III,” that provide for heightened bank capital, leverage
and liquidity requirements that would be phased in over a multi-year period. Basel III provides for a minimum 4.5% common equity risk-based capital requirement, a 6% Tier 1 risk-based capital requirement, an 8% total risk-based capital requirement,
an additional 2.5% common equity capital conservation buffer and a periodic countercyclical capital buffer. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses in periods of financial and economic distress. The countercyclical buffer would
be implemented according to national circumstances. The Basel III proposals also include a non-risk-based leverage ratio, as a supplement to the capital requirements, and liquidity requirements. The extent to which regulators in the United States
adopt or incorporate provisions of Basel III in future legislation, including the implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act, remains unclear.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS  Our executive officers are elected annually by our
Board of Directors. Certain information regarding our executive officers is set forth below.   








 Name (Age)
 
 Position or Employment for Past Five Years
 
 Executive
Officer Since





 Larry D. Richman (59)
 
 President and Chief Executive Officer of PrivateBancorp and The PrivateBank since November 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Richman was President and
Chief Executive Officer of LaSalle Bank, N.A. and President of LaSalle Bank Midwest N.A., which were sold to Bank of America Corporation on October 1, 2007. Mr. Richman began his career with American National Bank and joined Exchange National Bank
in 1981, which merged with LaSalle Bank in 1990.
 
2007
  18 


Table of Contents








 C. Brant Ahrens (41)
 
 President of Personal Client Services since February 2012 overseeing Private Wealth and Community Banking. Prior to that, he was Chief Operating Officer since
October 2009, overseeing community banking, operations, information technology, strategic development, human resources, marketing and communications. Mr. Ahrens joined PrivateBancorp as Chief Strategy Officer in 2007 and added the role of Chief
Marketing Officer in 2008. Mr. Ahrens was previously Group Senior Vice President and head of the Financial Institutions Group at LaSalle Bank, N.A., where he spent 15 years in various capacities including risk management, strategic development and
as head of International Corporate Banking.
 
2007





 Karen B. Case (53)
 
 President of Commercial Real Estate Banking since October 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Case was Executive Vice President of LaSalle Bank, N.A.
overseeing the Illinois Commercial Real Estate group. Prior to joining LaSalle in 1992, Ms. Case established and managed the Midwest real estate lending operations for New York-based Marine Midland Bank.
 
2007





 Jennifer R. Evans (53)
 
 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of PrivateBancorp and The PrivateBank, since January 2010. Ms. Evans previously served as a consultant to various
financial institutions, audit committees and public companies regarding compliance, regulatory and disclosure matters, and served on the board of directors, and on the audit and asset-liability management committees, of Evergreen Bank Group.
Previous to that, Ms. Evans held the role of Executive Vice President and General Counsel for MAF Bancorp, Inc. and its subsidiary Mid America Bank from 2004 to 2007. Ms. Evans spent over 20 years at Vedder Price P.C., a Chicago-based law firm, as a
partner and chair of its corporate securities practice group.
 
2010





 Bruce R. Hague (57)
 
 President of National Commercial Banking since October 2007, with responsibility for our regional banking and commercial lending offices. Mr. Hague spent 15
years at LaSalle Bank, N.A., where he ultimately became Executive Vice President of National Commercial Banking, responsible for 23 regional banking offices, including all commercial regional offices located throughout the United States,
International Corporate Banking, the LaSalle Leasing Group, Corporate Finance, and Treasury Management Sales.
 
2007





 Kevin M. Killips (57)
 
 Chief Financial Officer since March 2009. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Killips served as controller and chief accounting officer of Discover Financial
Services from March 31, 2008. Prior to joining Discover Financial Services, Mr. Killips was employed by LaSalle Bank where he worked for nearly ten years and ultimately served as Corporate Executive Vice President, North American Chief Accounting
Officer and Corporate Controller. Prior to working at LaSalle, he was director of Internal Audit, and then Vice President-Finance for leasing operations at Transamerica Corporation. Mr. Killips, a certified public accountant, also worked for Ernst
& Young from 1979-1993.
 
2009





 Bruce S. Lubin (58)
 
 President of Illinois Commercial and Specialty Banking since October 2007. From December 2009 to February 2012, he was also President of The Private Wealth
group. Mr. Lubin was previously executive vice president and head of the Illinois Commercial Banking Group at LaSalle Bank, N.A. Mr. Lubin had been employed by LaSalle since 1990, when LaSalle acquired The Exchange National Bank of Chicago. Mr.
Lubin was an employee of Exchange beginning in 1984.
 
2007





 Kevin J. Van Solkema (51)
 
 Mr. Van Solkema joined the Company in January 2008 and serves as Chief Credit Risk Officer. Mr. Van Solkema was previously employed by LaSalle Bank, N.A. as
Deputy Chief Credit Officer. From March through June 2007, Mr. Van Solkema was employed by CitiMortgage before rejoining LaSalle Bank. In April 2004, Mr. Van Solkema was appointed Head of Consumer Risk Management for ABN AMRO North America/LaSalle
Bank, which included responsibility for all credit and operational risk management 
 
2008
  19 


Table of Contents









 
 activities for ABN AMRO Mortgage Group, as well as LaSalle Bank’s consumer lending and portfolio mortgage units. Mr. Van Solkema was Head of Risk Management
at Michigan National Bank prior to it being acquired by LaSalle in 2001.
 






 Leonard Wiatr (64)
 
 Mr. Wiatr joined the Company in March 2008 as Chief Compliance and Regulatory Affairs Officer and in May 2010 assumed the responsibility of Chief Risk Officer.
Mr. Wiatr previously served at ABN AMRO and its subsidiary LaSalle Bank Corp. as Executive Vice President. Previous to that, Mr. Wiatr held the role of Examiner-In-Charge for Large Bank Supervision for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Mr. Wiatr spent 33 years at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
 
2010
 AVAILABLE INFORMATION  We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). This information is available free of charge through
the investor relations section of our web site at www.theprivatebank.com and through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. It may also be obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the
Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The following documents can be accessed through our web site or
are available in print upon the request of any stockholder to our corporate secretary:   


 
•
 
 certificate of incorporation 


 
•
 
 by-laws 


 
•
 
 charters of our audit, compensation, and nominating and corporate governance committees of our board of directors 


 
•
 
 corporate code of ethics 


 
•
 
 excessive or luxury expenditures policy  Within the time period required by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, we will post on our web site any amendment to our code of ethics and any waiver to the code of ethics applicable to any of our
executive officers or directors. In addition, our web site includes information concerning purchases and sales of our securities by our executive officers and directors. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a
convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. 
Our corporate secretary can be contacted by writing to PrivateBancorp, Inc., 120 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attn:
Corporate Secretary. Our investor relations department can be contacted by telephone at (312) 564-2000.  CAUTIONARY
STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  Statements contained in this report that are not historical facts may
constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements represent management’s beliefs and expectations regarding future events, such as our anticipated future financial results, credit
quality, revenues, expenses, or other financial items, and the impact of business plans and strategies or legislative or regulatory actions. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “may,” “might,”
“will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “project,”
“potential,” or “continue” and other comparable terminology.  Our ability to predict results or the actual
effects of future plans, strategies or events is inherently uncertain. Factors which could cause actual results to differ from those reflected in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: unforeseen credit quality problems or
further deterioration in problem assets that could result in charge-offs greater than we have anticipated in our allowance for loan losses; adverse developments impacting one or more large credits; the extent of further deterioration in real estate
values in our market areas, particularly in the Chicago area; the impact of market volatility on, among other things, fees related to assets under management and administration; difficulties in resolving problem credits or slower than anticipated
dispositions of other real estate owned (“OREO”) which may result in increased losses or higher credit costs; continued uncertainty regarding U.S. and global economic recovery and economic outlook, and ongoing volatility in market
conditions, that may impact credit quality or prolong weakness in demand for loans or other banking products and services; weakness in the commercial and industrial sector; unanticipated withdrawals of significant client deposits; lack of sufficient
or cost-effective sources of liquidity or funding; the terms and availability 
  20 


Table of Contents

of capital when and to the extent necessary or required to repay TARP preferred stock or otherwise; loss of key personnel or an inability to recruit and retain appropriate talent; unanticipated
changes in interest rates or significant tightening of credit spreads; competitive pricing pressures; uncertainty regarding implications of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations to be adopted in connection with implementation of the
legislation, including evolving regulatory capital standards; other legislative, regulatory or accounting changes affecting financial services companies and/or the products and services offered by financial services companies; uncertainties related
to potential costs associated with pending litigation; or failures or disruptions to our data processing or other information or operational systems.  These forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks, assumptions and uncertainties, and could be affected by many factors including those set forth in the “Risk Factors” and
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections of this Form 10-K as well as those set forth in our subsequent periodic and current reports filed with the SEC. These factors should be
considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we assume no obligation to update any of these
statements in public filings in light of future events unless required under the federal securities laws.  
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks,
including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are the most significant risks affecting us and our business, although additional risks not presently known to us or
that we currently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Before making a decision to invest in our securities, you should carefully consider the risks and
uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report.  Risks related to our business 
Our business has been, and will continue to be, affected by the stress in the commercial real estate market. 
The real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties and challenging economic conditions. In particular, market
conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area remain stressed. If the economy generally, or the real estate market specifically, does not improve or experiences further deterioration, we could suffer losses against commercial real estate and
construction loans in excess of what we have provided for in the allowance for loan losses. Since the beginning of 2009, when our commercial real estate and construction loans totaled $3.58 billion, we have recorded $299 million in charge-offs to
those portions of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, our commercial real estate and construction loans totaled $2.9 billion, and included $212 million in special mention and potential problem loans, and $155 million in non-performing
loans. At December 31, 2011, we allocated $64 million in general reserves and $44 million in specific reserves to the commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios. 
Our commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios include loans with large principal amounts and the repayment of these loans
is generally dependent on the successful leasing or sale of the property, the successful operation of the business occupying the property, the cost and time frame of constructing or improving a property and the availability of permanent financing.
The repayment of these loans is particularly influenced by general conditions in the real estate markets or in the local economy where the property is located. Many commercial real estate and construction loans do not fully amortize the balance over
the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment may depend on their ability to either refinance the loan or complete a timely sale of the underlying property. The borrower’s
inability to use funds generated by a project to service a loan until a project is completed, and the more pronounced risk to interest rate movements and the real estate market that these borrowers face while a project is being completed or seeking
a buyer, can also make construction loans more vulnerable to risk of default. On a non-owner occupied commercial property, if the cash flow from a borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, that borrower’s
ability to repay the loan may be impaired.  We depend on a liquid market in order to sell property that we acquire through
foreclosure (OREO) in a cost effective and timely manner. If the real estate market continues to experience difficulties and challenging economic conditions, we may have difficulty selling foreclosed property at values we consider reasonable,
particularly land, which may result in increased losses and carrying costs. At December 31, 2011, OREO totaled $125.7 million.  Our loan
portfolio is comprised of commercial and industrial loans, many of which include larger credit relationships, and the repayment of which is largely dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower and the state of the economy.
 Our loan portfolio is significantly comprised of commercial and industrial loans, many of which involve larger credit
relationships that expose us to significant concentration of credit risk. At December 31, 2011 and consistent with 2010, we had 78 unique obligors with credit commitments of $25 million or more totaling $2.5 billion. Over 90% of such
commitments at December 31, 2011 are secured by collateral. Of this total commitment, $1.1 billion, or 12% of our loan portfolio, has been used. The 
  21 


Table of Contents

remaining $1.4 billion relates to unused or partially drawn commitments. Approximately 85% of these large obligors are commercial and industrial businesses; the remaining exposure is related to
commercial real estate loans. Of our largest commitments, five individual obligors had commitments of $50 million or more at December 31, 2011, totaling $302.5 million of which $15.0 million has been drawn, compared to $362.5 million at December 31,
2010 of which $46.6 million was drawn. Depending on collateral values, success of a workout strategy or the ability of a borrower to return to performing status, the unexpected occurrence of an event or development adversely impacting one or more of
our large clients could materially affect our results of operation and financial condition.  The repayment of the loans in our
commercial and industrial portfolio is dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower. If the economy remains weak for a prolonged period or experiences further deterioration or if the industry or market in which the borrower
operates weakens, our borrowers may experience depressed or dramatic and sudden decreases in revenues that could hinder their ability to repay their loans. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio, which includes owner-occupied commercial real
estate, totaled $5.4 billion, or 60% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2011, compared to $4.9 billion, or 53% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2010. 
Many of our commercial and industrial loans are secured by different types of collateral related to the underlying business, such as
accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, which fluctuate in value. Should a commercial and industrial loan default require us to foreclose on underlying collateral, we may not recover the principal amount of the loan and the unique nature of
certain collateral may make it more difficult and costly to liquidate.  Within our commercial lending business, we have a
specialized niche in the nursing and residential care segment of the healthcare industry. At December 31, 2011, 23% of the commercial loan portfolio or $1.2 billion was composed of loans within the healthcare industry, primarily loans in which
the facilities securing the loans are dependent, in part, on the receipt of payments and reimbursements under government contracts for services provided. Our clients and their ability to service debt may be adversely impacted by the health of state
or federal budgets and the ability of such governments, many of which have experienced budgetary stress in the recent economic environment, to make payments for services previously provided. As of December 31, 2011, 55% of the healthcare
portfolio was secured by facilities in five states, with Illinois representing the highest percentage of facilities at 18%.  Our
allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.  Lending money is a substantial part of our
business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things:   


 
•
 
 the credit risks posed by the particular borrower and loan type; 


 
•
 
 changes in economic and industry conditions; 


 
•
 
 the duration of the loan; 


 
•
 
 in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; and 


 
•
 
 the ability to identify potential repayment issues in loans at an early stage. 
We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan
portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is assessed quarterly and represents an accounting estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date based on a review of available and relevant information at that time. The allowance
is not a prediction of our actual credit losses going forward. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships that are considered to be impaired, as well as probable
losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are not specifically identified, which is determined using a methodology that is a function of quantitative and qualitative factors applied to segments of our loan portfolio and management’s judgment.
The calculation of the allowance involves a great deal of judgment and uncertainty particularly given the state of the overall economy, the continuing stress in the real estate market, and negative events or circumstances that might impact an
individual borrower. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not incur losses on loans greater than what we have provided for in the allowance.  The allowance for loan losses was $191.6 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $222.8 million at December 31, 2010. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 2.13% at
December 31, 2011, compared to 2.44% at December 31, 2010.  Our allowance as a percentage of total loans reflects a
level based on management’s analysis of the risk inherent in our loan portfolio. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date, the
allowance may not be adequate especially if economic conditions worsen or the factors used to calculate the allowance change. Our regulators also review the adequacy of our allowance and although they have never done so, do have authority to compel
us to increase our allowance in current or future periods.  A large portion of our loan portfolio was originated since 2007
when we initiated a strategic plan to transform the bank into a leading middle market commercial bank. The behavior of a portfolio of more mature loans may be more predictable based on past performance history than a newer portfolio, such as ours.
In calculating the allowance, we use historical default and loss information. 
  22 


Table of Contents

For those segments of our portfolio that are less seasoned, such as our commercial and industrial portfolio, the available historical default and loss data is more limited, making it more
difficult to estimate the probable losses inherent in those portfolios. As a result, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will occur when the newer portion of the portfolio becomes more
seasoned, which may be higher than current levels.  In the event we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses,
our credit losses exceed our allowance or we are required to take higher than anticipated charge-offs in future periods, our earnings and our capital will be adversely affected. We may experience variability in our quarterly loan loss provision
expense and charge-offs if larger credits default, which may impact credit quality trends.  We may be required to hold higher capital
levels.  Under applicable regulatory guidelines, we are subject to minimum capital requirements adopted and
administered by the federal banking agencies. The current economic environment and the challenges facing many financial institutions, however, have resulted in heightened capital expectations from the federal banking agencies, particularly with
respect to financial institutions experiencing credit challenges in their loan portfolios.  Rulemaking proposals under
Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III could ultimately impose capital requirements that are more stringent than current requirements and expectations and may limit the use of subordinated debt or similar instruments to meet capital requirements. Future
issuances of trust preferred securities have been disallowed as Tier 1 qualifying capital under Dodd-Frank Act, although our currently outstanding trust preferred securities have been grandfathered for Tier 1 eligibility. The Dodd-Frank Act and
Basel III also require regulatory agencies to seek to make capital requirements for bank holding companies countercyclical, so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. Because
many of the implementing rules have not yet been finalized or even proposed, there is continuing uncertainty surrounding the rulemaking and interpretations under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III and the level of capital that will be deemed adequate
for our risk profile, as well as market expectations regarding adequate capital levels  We currently manage our balance sheet
to maintain capital ratios at levels above the minimum regulatory guidelines that we deem adequate for our risk profile and expect to manage growth within our existing capital base. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to
maintain capital at these levels or at levels required or expected by our regulators or future laws and regulations, especially considering the uncertainty surrounding such future laws and interpretations. Our capital position may be affected by
credit losses and credit deterioration, potential asset impairment, significant draws on our unfunded commitments, or unexpected asset growth.  We may be required to raise capital to maintain capital at appropriate levels. The terms on which we are able to raise capital, such as capital costs and dilutive impact on shareholders, will be dependent
upon our access to the capital markets and will be influenced by events, circumstances and risks that are specific to us and the banking industry.  The success of our business is dependent on ongoing access to sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity.  We depend on access to a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our lending commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our
clients, including funding new loans and client draws on unused lines of credit. As of December 31, 2011, we had a total of $4.1 billion of unfunded commitments to extend credit. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are client deposits,
large institutional deposits, and wholesale market-based borrowings, including brokered deposits. In addition to on-balance sheet liquidity and funding, we maintain access to various external sources of funding. These external sources of funding
include Federal Fund counterparty lines, repurchase agreements, the discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank, Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) borrowings and the brokered deposit market. Our ability to access these external sources
depends on availability in the market place and a number of factors such as counterparty relationship strength in the case of Federal Fund counterparty lines and repurchase agreements or the availability of loans eligible under the Federal
Reserve’s and the FHLB’s criteria (e.g., stipulations of documentation requirements, credit quality, payment status and other criteria).  If our primary sources of liquidity are insufficient and we are unable to adequately access external sources, we may be required to increase our on-balance sheet liquidity and funding by accessing the
capital markets, which may not be cost effective or may have a dilutive effect on our shareholders.  Since 2009, we have
experienced a significant increase in client deposits. This has allowed us to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that this level of client deposit growth will continue or remain at current levels or
that we will be able to maintain the lower reliance on wholesale deposits. As returns in the equity markets improve, when the economy improves, interest rates rise or if the current eligibility for unlimited FDIC insurance coverage is eliminated,
some of our client deposits may move to other investment options, which may lead to increased reliance on wholesale or other funding sources. 
  23 


Table of Contents
In addition, because our deposit base is relatively concentrated given our core commercial
banking strategy, the loss of large client relationships could negatively impact our liquidity. At December 31, 2011, we had 13 client relationships with greater than $75 million in deposit balances and our ten largest depositor accounts
totaled $1.9 billion, or 19% of total deposits.  We are highly dependent upon the current cash position of the holding company
to meet holding company liquidity needs and to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2011, the holding company had cash and liquid investments totaling $150 million. 
The loss of key managing directors may adversely affect our operations. 
We are a relationship-driven organization. Our growth and development during the past four years can be attributed in large part to the
efforts of our managing directors who have primary contact with our clients and who are extremely important in maintaining personalized relationships with our client base, which is a key aspect of our business strategy. The loss of one or more of
these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations if we are unable to replace these employees or we are unable to successfully retain the client relationships of a departing managing director. 
To the extent weak financial performance, restrictions on compensation due to our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program,
limitations on available equity awards, or regulatory guidance impact our ability to offer competitive pay programs, we may not be successful in motivating and retaining key employees.  Our business could be significantly impacted if we suffer failure or disruptions of our information systems.  We rely heavily on communications, data processing and other information processing systems to conduct our business and support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities, many of which are
provided through third-parties. Although we take ongoing protective monitoring, detection, and prevention measures and perform penetration testing and risk assessments at least annually, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable
to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, or cyberattacks beyond what we can reasonably anticipate and
such events could result in material loss. We could suffer disruptions to our systems or damage to our network infrastructure from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as electrical or telecommunications outages, natural
disasters, widespread health emergencies or pandemics, or events arising from local or larger scale political events, including terrorist acts. We outsource data processing and other functions to third parties. If our third party providers encounter
difficulties or become the source of an attack on or breach of operational systems, data or infrastructure, or if we have difficulty communicating with any such third party system, our business operations could suffer. Any failure or disruption to
our systems, or those of a third party provider, could impede our service delivery, customer relationship management, data processing, financial reporting or risk management. There can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and protective
measures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach will be effective, and if significant failure, interruption or security breaches does occur, we could suffer damage to our reputation, a loss of customer
business, additional regulatory scrutiny, or exposure to civil litigation, additional costs and possible financial liability. If we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure, systems, controls and personnel relative to our size and products and
services, our ability to effectively operate our business may be impaired and our business could be adversely affected.  Our
participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program subjects us to certain restrictions.  On
January 30, 2009, we issued approximately $243.8 million of our senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock at an exercise price of $28.35 per share to the Treasury under the TARP CPP. Based on our participation in
the CPP, we agreed to comply with its terms and conditions, which subjects us to certain restrictions, oversight, costs and compliance and reputational risks. For example, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, increase our dividend,
currently $0.01 per share per quarter, above a rate of $0.075 per quarter or, subject to certain exceptions, engage in repurchases of our common stock or trust preferred securities until January 30, 2012 or, if earlier, the date on which all
preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury. Our participation in the CPP also subjects us to additional executive compensation and other restrictions, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and
retain highly-qualified senior executive officers and other employees, particularly in light of the fact that some of the financial institutions with which we compete are not subject to the restrictions imposed by the CPP. Furthermore, under the
terms of the securities purchase agreement we entered into with the Treasury, the Treasury will be able to unilaterally amend the agreement to make it consistent with any subsequent statutory provisions implemented by Congress. If we fail to comply
with the terms and conditions of the program or the securities purchase agreement, including any restrictions upon our use of the CPP proceeds, we could become subject to a regulatory enforcement action or legal proceedings brought by the U.S.
government, which, in turn, would present significant reputational risks for us that could affect our ability to retain or attract new clients or investors (if and when we determine to raise additional capital) or both. 
  24 


Table of Contents
We have counterparty risk; the creditworthiness of other financial institutions could expose us to
losses on contracts we have with these institutions and could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our clients, specifically products and services relating to foreign exchange, derivatives and letters of credit. 
Our ability to provide certain products and service could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other banks.
Banks are interrelated as a result of lending, clearing, correspondent, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more banks, or the banking industry generally, have in the past led to
market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of the transactions engaged in by us in the ordinary course of business, particularly in our capital markets group; expose us to credit risk in
the event of default of a counterparty or customer. In such instances, the collateral we hold may be insufficient to mitigate our losses, as we may be unable to realize or liquidate at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure.
Such losses could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Our capital
markets group offers an extensive range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products. Although we do not engage in any proprietary trading and we structure these client-generated trading activities to mitigate our
exposure to market risk, we remain exposed to various risks, the most significant of which include credit risk of our counterparties, operational risk and settlement risk, which may be most significant in foreign exchange transactions where timing
differences between settlement centers can result in us paying our client and/or counterparty before actually receiving the funds. The exposure of our counterparties requires active monitoring as well as liquidity management to ensure timely and
cost efficient posting of collateral. Operational risk includes errors in execution of internal bank procedures and controls, which could expose us to financial and/or reputation loss. A lapse or breakdown of these procedures or controls could
significantly increase our exposure to counterparty credit risk and operational risk, which could result in a material loss to us.  Risks
related to our operating environment  Weak economic conditions could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.  Various segments of the U.S. economy have been in a prolonged and deep slowdown
over the past four years, and there is continuing uncertainty, volatility and stress in the U.S. economy and the local economies in each of our markets. Continued and sustained periods of uncertainty, prolonged periods of unemployment, volatility or
further deterioration in the international, national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a further deterioration of credit quality, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan
losses, and a reduced demand for credit. In addition, higher corporate taxes in the State of Illinois may contribute to an adverse climate for doing business in the state. Continued sustained weakness and uncertainty in business and economic
conditions generally, or in our markets specifically, could adversely impact our business through:   


 
•
 
 more clients and counterparties becoming delinquent, filing for protection under bankruptcy laws or defaulting on their loans or other obligations
to us; 


 
•
 
 a decrease in the value of the collateral underlying loans, requiring paydowns by our borrowers to remain in loan-to-value compliance, restricting
borrower access to liquidity as defined by borrowing arrangements or, alternatively, resulting in a default; 


 
•
 
 a decrease in the value of any loans that we may hold for sale or property acquired upon default; 


 
•
 
 lengthy holding periods required to liquidate property acquired upon default or loans held for sale, thereby increasing carrying costs and
potentially impacting market values; and 


 
•
 
 sluggish demand for loans and other products and services offered by us. 
An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults in future periods could result in a higher level of nonperforming
assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan and covered asset losses, and valuation adjustments on any loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 
We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes.  Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income
earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the
FRB, actual inflation or deflation or expectations regarding the same, recession, unemployment rates, money supply, domestic and foreign events, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. The timing of any FRB action to curtail or
eliminate various stimulus-related programs, as a result of inflation concerns or otherwise, could have an impact on interest rates in general and our net interest margin in particular. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments that may be
adversely affected by changes in interest rates or spreads caused by governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, issuer or insurer credit deterioration and other factors beyond our control. A rise in
interest rates or spread widening would reduce the net unrealized gains currently reflected in our investment portfolio and slowdown prepayment, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. 
Demand for the products or services of our capital markets group could be negatively impacted by interest rate changes and a decrease in
sales volumes from this group could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.  Global economic uncertainty
and the potential for a deterioration in the European sovereign debt crisis may adversely affect the financial services industry and could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 
Continuing uncertainty in the economic, political and financial markets and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe could impact our
customers and could negatively affect our credit portfolio and liquidity position. There have been recent periods of extreme volatility in the global financial markets and the financial turmoil and uncertainty with respect to the euro zone crisis
could threaten the stability of the global banking system and the Company’s financial condition. Continuing uncertainty and volatility or a disruption in the global financial markets could impact the Company’s financial condition to the
extent it causes stress on the United States financial services industry. The Company also faces risks related to our counterparties who may have exposure in European sovereign debt holdings, particularly those countries experiencing significant
economic, fiscal or political strains. Although we had no direct funded or non-funded exposure to European sovereign or non-sovereign entities in either our Held-to-Maturity or Available-for-Sale portfolios as of December 31, 2011, we conduct
business with European financial institutions headquartered in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, France, and Germany, related to repurchase agreements, interest rate swaps, balance sheet hedging, foreign exchange transactions and letter of credit
issuance. As is common market practice, certain of our interest rate derivatives and letter of credit transactions with such European financial institutions are collateralized with investment securities that we have been required to pledge to the
counterparty institution. Should one of these counterparties experience significant financial distress, those securities could become so-called trapped collateral pending resolution of any applicable proceedings. In addition, although we primarily
lend to U.S. commercial clients, the operations, and therefore financial stability, of some of those clients may be affected by disruption or volatility in Europe. Further, the Company may have direct and/or indirect exposure to foreign subsidiaries
and affiliates of U.S. domiciled commercial clients. Such subsidiaries and affiliates may be co-borrowers or guarantors of the U.S. client’s credit facilities. In some cases, assets or stock of such subsidiaries or affiliates may be pledged to
secure payment and performance of certain credit facilities. At this time, we cannot predict the impact this may have on our results of operations and financial condition.  Risks related to the financial services industry  We are highly
regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices.  We are
subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not
only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and
performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend
payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they
determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could
materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or expectations or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our
financial condition, or any related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to expand our business and result in damage to our reputation. 
Changes in laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting the financial services industry, and the effects of such
changes, are difficult to predict and may have unintended consequences. New regulations or changes in the regulatory environment could limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer
competing financial services and products, among other things. These changes also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. 
The impact of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act is still uncertain, is expected to increase our regulatory compliance burden and
costs of doing business and could result in enhanced capital and leverage requirements and restrictions on certain products and services we offer.  In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which significantly changes the financial regulatory landscape and will affect the operating
activities of financial institutions and their holding companies as well as others. Although many of the details of the Dodd-Frank Act and the full impact it will have on our business or revenues are

  26 


Table of Contents

uncertain at this point, in part because many of the provisions require the adoption of implementing rules and regulations, the burden of compliance with the new law and its rules and regulations
will increase operating costs and may reduce revenue.  In addition to capital requirements as previously discussed, the
Dodd-Frank Act also increases the regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions. This is expected to impact our capital markets group which offers an extensive range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products to
our clients. The regulations are expected to impose additional reporting and monitoring requirements, require higher capital and margin requirements and require that certain trades be executed through clearinghouses, all of which would likely result
in added costs of doing business. Depending on the outcome of regulatory implementation (including, but not limited to, the definition of swap dealers and related compliance rules), the prospects for our capital markets business, the demand for its
products and the types of products it may cost-effectively offer may be diminished.  The Dodd-Frank Act repealed the
prohibition on banks’ payment of interest on demand deposit accounts of commercial clients beginning one year from the date of enactment, and the market impact of this change at this stage has not been meaningful. However, under different
market and economic conditions, it may have an impact on the level and cost of liquidity.  Another significant aspect of the
Dodd-Frank Act that will affect us is the creation of a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau will have broad rule-making authority for a
wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Among other things, it is anticipated that the Bureau may consider significant reforms
in the mortgage industry that could have an adverse affect on our mortgage business.  No assurance can be given as to the
ultimate effect that the Dodd-Frank Act or any of its provisions will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the financial services industry or the economy.  Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.  We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive
environment. We compete for loans, deposits, wealth management and other financial services in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, financial companies, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve.
Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not or have greater resources and economies of scale to offer products and services that we offer more cost effectively. Certain of our competitors may have better name recognition and
market presence that could benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do or offer more favorable terms. 
To be competitive, we will need to continue to invest in technology, infrastructure and human resources. This investment is directed at
enhancing our risk management function and generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of our clients and regulators. Falling behind our competitors, who may have more
extensive resources to invest, in any of these areas, could adversely affect our business. 
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None.  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
The executive offices of PrivateBancorp are located in downtown Chicago, Illinois at 120 South LaSalle Street. This building which houses
a majority of our general corporate functions is leased from an unaffiliated third party. We conduct our business primarily through the Bank at 28 full-service banking offices in the greater Atlanta, Chicago, Detroit, Kansas City, Milwaukee, and St.
Louis metropolitan areas. We also have business development offices located in Atlanta, Cleveland, Denver, Des Moines, and Minneapolis. With the exception of 10 locations which are owned, all other offices are leased from unaffiliated third parties.
At certain Bank locations, excess space is leased to third parties.  We also own 29 automated teller machines (“ATMs”) located at
our banking facilities.  We believe our facilities in the aggregate are suitable and adequate to operate our banking and
related business. Additional information with respect to premises, equipment and lease arrangements is presented in Note 7 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
  27 


Table of Contents
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
On October 22, 2010, a lawsuit was filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois against the Company on behalf of a
purported class of purchasers of our common stock between November 2, 2007 and October 23, 2009. Certain of our current and former executive officers and directors and firms that participated in the underwriting of our June 2008 and May
2009 public offerings of common stock were also named as defendants in the litigation. On January 25, 2011, the City of New Orleans Employees’ Retirement System and State-Boston Retirement System were together named as the lead plaintiff,
and an amended complaint was filed on February 18, 2011. The amended complaint alleged various claims of securities law violations against certain of the named defendants relating to disclosures we made during the class period in filings under
the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The plaintiffs sought class certification, compensatory damages in an unspecified amount, costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, and rescission. The defendants filed a
joint motion to dismiss seeking dismissal of all counts. On November 7, 2011, the court released its decision on the defendants’ motion and dismissed all counts of the complaint with prejudice. The plaintiffs did not appeal the
court’s decision.  As of December 31, 2011, there were various legal proceedings pending against the Company and its
subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business. Management does not believe that the outcome of these proceedings will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.  ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
Not applicable. 
PART II  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY,  RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 Our common stock is traded under the symbol “PVTB” on the NASDAQ Global Select market tier of The NASDAQ Stock
Market. As of February 21, 2012, there were approximately 510 stockholders of record. The following table sets forth the high and low intraday sales prices and quarter-end closing price of our common stock, dividends declared per share,
dividend yield and book value per share during each quarter of 2011 and 2010. As of February 24, 2012, our closing market price was $14.50 per share.   




































 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
    Fourth    
 
  
    Third    
 
  
    Second    
 
  
    First    
 
 
    Fourth    
 
  
    Third    
 
  
    Second    
 
  
    First    
 

 Market price of common stock
  



  



  



  


 
 



  



  



  




   High
  
$
    12.12  
  
  
$
    14.45  
  
  
$
    16.49  
  
  
$
    16.09  
  
 
$
    15.06  
  
  
$
    13.00  
  
  
$
    17.96  
  
  
$
    15.58  
  

   Low
  
$
6.44  
  
  
$
7.19  
  
  
$
13.24  
  
  
$
13.63  
  
 
$
10.96  
  
  
$
10.24  
  
  
$
10.91  
  
  
$
8.85  
  

  
Quarter-end
  
$
10.98  
  
  
$
7.52  
  
  
$
13.80  
  
  
$
15.29  
  
 
$
14.38  
  
  
$
11.39  
  
  
$
11.08  
  
  
$
13.70  
  

   Cash dividends declared
per share
  
$
0.01  
  
  
$
0.01  
  
  
$
0.01  
  
  
$
0.01  
  
 
$
0.01  
  
  
$
0.01  
  
  
$
0.01  
  
  
$
0.01  
  

   Dividend yield at
quarter-end (1)
  
 
0.36% 
  
  
 
0.53% 
  
  
 
0.29% 
  
  
 
0.26% 
  
 
 
0.28% 
  
  
 
0.35% 
  
  
 
0.36% 
  
  
 
0.29% 
  

   Book value per share at
quarter-end
  
$
14.72  
  
  
$
14.57  
  
  
$
14.22  
  
  
$
13.98  
  
 
$
13.87  
  
  
$
14.10  
  
  
$
13.98  
  
  
$
13.77  
  
  


 
(1)
 Ratios are
presented on an annualized basis.  A discussion regarding the restrictions applicable to our ability and the
ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends is included in the “Supervision and Regulation – Bank Regulation” section in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in
Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
  28 


Table of Contents
Stock Performance Graph 
The graph below illustrates, over a five-year period, the cumulative total return (defined as stock price appreciation and dividends) to
stockholders from an investment in our common stock against a broad-market total return equity index and a published industry total return equity index. The broad-market total return equity index used in this comparison is the Russell 2000 Index and
the published industry total return equity index used in this comparison is the Center for Research in Security Prices index for NASDAQ Bank Stocks.   


 Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Among 
PrivateBancorp, Inc., the NASDAQ Bank Index, and the Russell 2000 Index (1)
 




























 
  
Period Ending December 31,
 

 
  
2006
 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 









 PrivateBancorp
  
 $
        100.00 
  
  
 $
        79.14 
  
  
 $
        79.44 
  
  
 $
        22.01 
  
  
 $
        35.40 
  
  
 $
        27.13 
  









 NASDAQ Bank Index
  
 
100.00 
  
  
 
80.09 
  
  
 
62.84 
  
  
 
52.60 
  
  
 
60.04 
  
  
 
53.74 
  









 Russell 2000 Index
  
 
100.00 
  
  
 
98.43 
  
  
 
65.18 
  
  
 
82.89 
  
  
 
105.14 
  
  
 
100.75 
  
  


 
(1)
 Assumes $100
invested on December 31, 2006 in PrivateBancorp’s common stock, the Russell 2000 Index and the NASDAQ Bank Index with the reinvestment of all related dividends. 
To the extent this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference into any other filing by us under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the foregoing “Stock Performance Graph” will not be deemed incorporated, unless specifically provided otherwise in such filing and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts. 
  29 


Table of Contents
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
In connection with our participation in the TARP CPP, our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock is subject to the applicable
restrictions of the CPP following the January 2009 sale of the preferred stock to the Treasury under the CPP. The restrictions on repurchases will not affect our ability to repurchase shares in connection with the administration of our employee
benefit plans as such transactions are in the ordinary course and consistent with our past practice.  The following table
summarizes purchases we made during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 in the administration of our employee share-based compensation plans. Under the terms of these plans, we accept shares of common stock from plan participants if they elect
to surrender previously-owned shares upon exercise of options to cover the exercise price or, in the case of both restricted shares of common stock or stock options, the withholding of shares to satisfy tax withholding obligations associated with
the vesting of restricted shares or exercise of stock options.  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
 





Total Number 



Total Number 



Total Number 



Total Number 


 
  
Total        Number of     
   Shares Purchased
 
  
        Average        
PricePaid perShare
 
  
    Total Number    of SharesPurchased
asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms
 
  
MaximumNumber ofShares that    May Yet Be  
  PurchasedUnder thePlan orPrograms
 

 October 1 - October 31, 2011
  
 
633    
  
  
 $
7.52    
  
  
 
-    
  
  
 
-    
  

 November 1 - November 30, 2011
  
 
2,503    
  
  
 
10.83    
  
  
 
-    
  
  
 
-    
  

 December 1 - December 31, 2011
  
 
        64,226    
  
  
 
10.85    
  
  
 
-    
  
  
 
-    
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
67,362    
  
  
 $
        10.82    
  
  
 
-    
  
  
 
-    
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Unregistered Sale of Equity Securities  None. 
  30 


Table of Contents
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
Consolidated financial information reflecting a summary of our operating results and financial condition for each of the five years in
the period ended December 31, 2011 is presented in the following table. This summary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. A more detailed
discussion and analysis of the factors affecting our financial condition and operating results is presented in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of this Form 10-K.
  


































 
 
 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

  
 

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 
 2011
 
 
 2010
 
 
 2009
 
 
 2008
 
 
 2007
 

 Operating Results
 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  




 Interest income
 
 $
  
 
481,146 
  
 
$
  
 
507,925 
  
 
 $
  
 
478,712 
  
 
 $
  
 
405,383 
  
 
 $
  
 
307,924 
  

 Interest expense
 

  
 
74,019 
  
 

  
 
106,968 
  
 

  
 
153,728 
  
 

  
 
214,988 
  
 

  
 
180,886 
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Net interest income
 

  
 
407,127 
  
 

  
 
400,957 
  
 

  
 
324,984 
  
 

  
 
190,395 
  
 

  
 
127,038 
  

 Provision for loan and covered loan losses
 

  
 
132,897 
  
 

  
 
194,541 
  
 

  
 
199,419 
  
 

  
 
189,579 
  
 

  
 
16,934 
  

 Fee revenue (1)
 

  
 
92,476 
  
 

  
 
81,064 
  
 

  
 
65,074 
  
 

  
 
40,806 
  
 

  
 
25,926 
  

 Net securities gains
 

  
 
5,771 
  
 

  
 
12,182 
  
 

  
 
7,381 
  
 

  
 
510 
  
 

  
 
348 
  

 Loss on early extinguishment of debt
 

  
 
- 
  
 

  
 
- 
  
 

  
 
(985)
  
 

  
 
- 
  
 

  
 
- 
  

 Non-interest expense
 

  
 
302,277 
  
 

  
 
299,598 
  
 

  
 
247,415 
  
 

  
 
196,125 
  
 

  
 
122,409 
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
 

  
 
70,200 
  
 

  
 
64 
  
 

  
 
(50,380)
  
 

  
 
(153,993)
  
 

  
 
13,969 
  

 Income tax provision (benefit)
 

  
 
25,660 
  
 

  
 
(1,737)
  
 

  
 
(20,564)
  
 

  
 
(61,357)
  
 

  
 
2,471 
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 

  
 
44,540 
  
 

  
 
1,801 
  
 

  
 
(29,816)
  
 

  
 
(92,636)
  
 

  
 
11,498 
  

 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 

  
 
170 
  
 

  
 
284 
  
 

  
 
247 
  
 

  
 
309 
  
 

  
 
363 
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling interests
 

  
 
44,370 
  
 

  
 
1,517 
  
 

  
 
(30,063)
  
 

  
 
(92,945)
  
 

  
 
11,135 
  

 Preferred stock dividends and discount accretion
 

  
 
13,690 
  
 

  
 
13,607 
  
 

  
 
12,443 
  
 

  
 
546 
  
 

  
 
107 
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders
 
$
  
 
30,680 
  
 
$
  
 
(12,090)
  
 
$
  
 
(42,506)
  
 
$
  
 
(93,491)
  
 
$
  
 
11,028 
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Weighted-average common shares outstanding
 

  
 
70,449 
  
 

  
 
70,024 
  
 

  
 
44,516 
  
 

  
 
29,553 
  
 

  
 
21,572 
  

 Weighted-average diluted common shares outstanding
 

  
 
70,642 
  
 

  
 
70,024 
  
 

  
 
44,516 
  
 

  
 
29,553 
  
 

  
 
22,286 
  

  
 

 Selected Operating Statistics
 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  




 Net revenue (2)
 
$
  
 
      508,231 
  
 
$
  
 
      497,780 
  
 
$
  
 
      400,066 
  
 
$
  
 
      235,568 
  
 
$
  
 
      157,586 
  

 Operating profit (2)
 

  
 
205,954 
  
 

  
 
198,182 
  
 

  
 
152,651 
  
 

  
 
39,443 
  
 

  
 
35,177 
  

 Provision for loan losses (3)
 

  
 
130,555 
  
 

  
 
192,024 
  
 

  
 
198,866 
  
 

  
 
189,579 
  
 

  
 
16,934 
  

  
 

 Per Share Data
 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  




 Basic earnings (loss) per share
 
$
  
 
0.43 
  
 
$
  
 
(0.17)
  
 
$
  
 
(0.95)
  
 
$
  
 
(3.16)
  
 
$
  
 
0.50 
  

 Diluted earnings (loss) per share
 

  
 
0.43 
  
 

  
 
(0.17)
  
 

  
 
(0.95)
  
 

  
 
(3.16)
  
 

  
 
0.49 
  

 Cash dividends declared
 

  
 
0.04 
  
 

  
 
0.04 
  
 

  
 
0.04 
  
 

  
 
0.30 
  
 

  
 
0.30 
  

 Book value at year end
 

  
 
14.72 
  
 

  
 
13.87 
  
 

  
 
13.99 
  
 

  
 
16.31 
  
 

  
 
16.42 
  

 Tangible book value at year end (2)(4)
 

  
 
13.19 
  
 

  
 
12.30 
  
 

  
 
12.41 
  
 

  
 
13.28 
  
 

  
 
12.86 
  

 Market price at year end
 
$
  
 
10.98 
  
 
$
  
 
14.38 
  
 
$
  
 
8.97 
  
 
$
  
 
32.46 
  
 
$
  
 
32.65 
  

 Dividend payout ratio
 

  
 
9.30% 
  
 

  
 
n/m 
  
 

  
 
n/m 
  
 

  
 
n/m 
  
 

  
 
60.00% 
  

  
 

 Performance Ratios
 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  




 Return on average common equity
 

  
 
2.98% 
  
 

  
 
-1.20% 
  
 

  
 
-4.71% 
  
 

  
 
-18.71% 
  
 

  
 
3.50% 
  

 Return on average assets
 

  
 
0.36% 
  
 

  
 
0.01% 
  
 

  
 
-0.27% 
  
 

  
 
-1.25% 
  
 

  
 
0.25% 
  

 Net interest margin (2)
 

  
 
3.49% 
  
 

  
 
3.38% 
  
 

  
 
3.06% 
  
 

  
 
2.73% 
  
 

  
 
3.14% 
  

 Efficiency ratio (2)(5)
 

  
 
59.48% 
  
 

  
 
60.19% 
  
 

  
 
61.84% 
  
 

  
 
83.26% 
  
 

  
 
77.68% 
  

  
 

  31 


Table of Contents


































 
 
 
  
As of December 31,
 

  
 

   (Dollars in thousands)
 
 
  
2011
 
 
 
  
2010
 
 
 
  
2009
 
 
 
  
2008
 
 
 
  
2007
 

  
 

 Credit Quality (3)
 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  




 Nonaccrual loans
 
 $
  
 
259,852  
  
 
 $
  
 
365,880  
  
 
 $
  
 
395,447  
  
 
 $
  
 
131,919  
  
 
 $
  
 
38,983  
  

 90 days past due loans (still accruing interest)
 

  
 
-  
  
 

  
 
-  
  
 

  
 
-  
  
 

  
 
-  
  
 

  
 
53  
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Nonperforming loans
 

  
 
259,852  
  
 

  
 
365,880  
  
 

  
 
395,447  
  
 

  
 
131,919  
  
 

  
 
39,036  
  

 OREO
 

  
 
125,729  
  
 

  
 
88,728  
  
 

  
 
41,497  
  
 

  
 
23,823  
  
 

  
 
9,265  
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Total nonperforming assets
 
 $
  
 
385,581  
  
 
 $
  
 
454,608  
  
 
 $
  
 
436,944  
  
 
 $
  
 
155,742  
  
 
 $
  
 
48,301  
  


 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

 Restructured loans accruing interest
 

  
 
100,909  
  
 

  
 
87,576  
  
 

  
 
-  
  
 

  
 
-  
  
 

  
 
-  
  

 Net charge-offs
 
 $
  
 
161,782  
  
 
 $
  
 
190,891  
  
 
 $
  
 
89,850  
  
 
 $
  
 
125,798  
  
 
 $
  
 
6,112  
  

 Total nonperforming loans to total loans
 

  
 
2.88%  
  
 

  
 
4.01%  
  
 

  
 
4.37%  
  
 

  
 
1.65%  
  
 

  
 
0.93%  
  

 Total nonperforming assets to total assets
 

  
 
3.11%  
  
 

  
 
3.65%  
  
 

  
 
3.63%  
  
 

  
 
1.56%  
  
 

  
 
0.97%  
  

 Allowance for loan losses to total loans
 

  
 
2.13%  
  
 

  
 
2.44%  
  
 

  
 
2.45%  
  
 

  
 
1.41%  
  
 

  
 
1.17%  
  

  
 

   Balance Sheet
Highlights
 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  




 Total assets
 
 $
  
 
12,416,870  
  
 
 $
  
 
12,465,621  
  
 
 $
  
 
12,032,584  
  
 
 $
  
 
10,005,519  
  
 
 $
  
 
4,989,203  
  

 Average earning assets
 

  
 
11,746,032  
  
 

  
 
11,978,364  
  
 

  
 
10,740,119  
  
 

  
 
7,111,380  
  
 

  
 
4,180,179  
  

 Loans (3)
 

  
 
9,008,561  
  
 

  
 
9,114,357  
  
 

  
 
9,046,625  
  
 

  
 
8,001,789  
  
 

  
 
4,177,525  
  

 Allowance for loan losses (3)
 

  
 
191,594  
  
 

  
 
222,821  
  
 

  
 
221,688  
  
 

  
 
112,672  
  
 

  
 
48,891  
  

 Deposits
 

  
 
10,392,854  
  
 

  
 
10,535,429  
  
 

  
 
9,891,914  
  
 

  
 
7,961,438  
  
 

  
 
3,760,868  
  

 Client deposits (6)
 

  
 
10,372,355  
  
 

  
 
9,937,060  
  
 

  
 
9,305,503  
  
 

  
 
5,985,628  
  
 

  
 
3,220,194  
  

 Long-term debt
 

  
 
379,793  
  
 

  
 
414,793  
  
 

  
 
533,023  
  
 

  
 
618,793  
  
 

  
 
386,783  
  

 Equity
 

  
 
1,296,752  
  
 

  
 
1,227,910  
  
 

  
 
1,235,616  
  
 

  
 
605,566  
  
 

  
 
501,972  
  

  
 

   Capital
Ratios
 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  




 Total risk-based capital (2)
 

  
 
14.28%  
  
 

  
 
14.18%  
  
 

  
 
14.69%  
  
 

  
 
10.35%  
  
 

  
 
14.23%  
  

 Tier 1 risk-based capital (2)
 

  
 
12.38%  
  
 

  
 
12.06%  
  
 

  
 
12.32%  
  
 

  
 
7.26%  
  
 

  
 
11.42%  
  

 Tier 1 leverage ratio (2)
 

  
 
11.33%  
  
 

  
 
10.78%  
  
 

  
 
11.17%  
  
 

  
 
7.17%  
  
 

  
 
10.96%  
  

 Tier 1 common capital (2)
 

  
 
8.04%  
  
 

  
 
7.69%  
  
 

  
 
7.86%  
  
 

  
 
4.54%  
  
 

  
 
8.14%  
  

 Tangible equity to tangible assets
 

  
 
9.64%  
  
 

  
 
9.04%  
  
 

  
 
9.42%  
  
 

  
 
5.09%  
  
 

  
 
8.23%  
  

 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (2)(7)
 

  
 
7.69%  
  
 

  
 
7.10%  
  
 

  
 
7.42%  
  
 

  
 
4.50%  
  
 

  
 
7.39%  
  

 Average equity to average assets
 

  
 
10.29%  
  
 

  
 
9.93%  
  
 

  
 
10.23%  
  
 

  
 
7.41%  
  
 

  
 
7.16%  
  

  
 

   Selected
Information
 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  



 

  




 Assets under management
 
 $
  
 
4,303,547  
  
 
 $
  
 
4,271,602  
  
 
 $
  
 
3,983,623  
  
 
 $
  
 
3,261,061  
  
 
 $
  
 
3,361,171  
  

 Full-time equivalent employees
 

  
 
1,045  
  
 

  
 
1,060  
  
 

  
 
1,040  
  
 

  
 
773  
  
 

  
 
597  
  

 Banking offices
 

  
 
39  
  
 

  
 
39  
  
 

  
 
38  
  
 

  
 
23  
  
 

  
 
20  
  

  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Computed as total non-interest income less net securities gains (losses) and loss on early extinguishment of debt. 
 


 
(2) 
 This is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. Refer to Table 33 of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K for a reconciliation from non-U.S. GAAP to U.S. GAAP.   


 
(3) 
 Excludes covered assets.   


 
(4) 
 Computed as total equity less preferred stock, goodwill, and other intangibles divided by outstanding shares of common stock at end of year.
  


 
(5) 
 Computed as non-interest expense divided by the sum of net interest income on a tax equivalent basis (assuming a federal income tax rate of 35%) and
non-interest income.   


 
(6) 
 Total deposits net of traditional brokered deposits and non-client CDARS®. 
 


 
(7) 
 Computed as tangible common equity divided by tangible assets, where tangible common equity equals total equity less preferred stock, goodwill, and
other intangible assets and tangible assets equals total assets less goodwill and other intangible assets.   






n/m
 
 Not meaningful.

  32 


Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION  AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  INTRODUCTION  The following discussion and analysis is intended to address
the significant factors affecting our Consolidated Statements of Income for the years 2009 through 2011 and Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as of December 31, 2010 and 2011. When we use the terms “PrivateBancorp,” the
“Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our,” we mean PrivateBancorp, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. When we use the term “the Bank,” we are referring to our wholly owned banking subsidiary, The
PrivateBank brand. The following discussion is designed to provide stockholders with a comprehensive review of our operating results and financial condition and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, accompanying
notes thereto, and other financial information presented in this Form 10-K.  Unless otherwise stated, all earnings per share
data included in this section and through the remainder of this discussion are presented on a diluted basis.  OVERVIEW 
We reported net income available to common stockholders of $30.7 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, an improvement from a net loss of
$12.1 million, or $0.17 per diluted share in 2010.  The financial performance of the Company in 2011 reflected our focused
efforts on executing our relationship-based commercial middle market strategy and improving asset quality. This is reflected in $1.4 billion in new client relationships added during the year, $534.6 million growth in our higher-yielding commercial
and industrial loan portfolio (an 11% increase from the prior year, the majority of which came from new client relationships) and improved loan mix with the commercial and industrial portfolio representing 60% of total loans at year end 2011
compared to 53% at year end 2010. We also saw meaningful improvement in our asset quality metrics across the board, with nonperforming loans and assets declining 29% and 15%, respectively, from year end 2010 as a result of problem asset dispositions
of $387.8 million during 2011, movement of $131.4 million of nonperforming loans to other real estate owned (“OREO”) during 2011, and moderating nonperforming loan inflows resulting from a reduction in early stage problem loans which
declined by $524.4 million, or 58%, at December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year levels. With credit quality improving, the provision for loans losses, excluding covered assets, declined $61.5 million from 2010 levels and we reduced our
allowance for loan losses by $31.2 million from the prior year end.  Total deposits were $10.4 billion at the end of 2011,
relatively flat compared to year end 2010. Noninterest-bearing deposits, however, made up 31% of total deposits at the end of 2011, compared to 21% at the end of 2010, reflecting a 44% increase in such deposits from December 31, 2010. The
increase in noninterest-bearing demand deposits is due in part to the current interest rate environment and client desires for greater liquidity.  The shift in the loan mix, improving credit quality, deposit repricing and higher demand deposits helped contribute to a net interest margin of 3.49% for 2011, up 11 basis points from 2010. During 2011,
non-interest income and net revenue benefited from successful cross-selling efforts of our fee based products such as capital markets, treasury management and other credit related services to both the new and existing client base. 
Although expenses continue to be impacted by higher net foreclosed property costs (due mostly to a higher volume of asset dispositions in
2011 and a 42% increase in the OREO balance at the end of 2011 compared to the prior year resulting from continued asset workout efforts) and higher compensation expense, total non-interest expenses for 2011 remained relatively flat at $302.3
million compared to the prior year reflecting management’s ongoing cost control efforts. Operating profit totaled $206.0 million, up 4% from prior year, and was favorably impacted by higher net revenue and relatively unchanged expense levels.
Excluding net securities gains, operating profit increased $14.2 million, or 8%, from 2010.  Please refer to the remaining
sections of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for greater discussion of the various components of our 2011 performance, statement of condition and liquidity. 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The profitability of our operations depends on our net interest income, provision for loan and covered loan losses, non-interest income,
and non-interest expense. Net interest income is dependent on the amount of and yields earned on interest-earning assets as compared to the amount of and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest income is sensitive to changes in
market rates of interest as well as to the execution of our asset/liability management strategy. The provision for loan and covered loan losses is primarily affected by changes in the loan portfolio’s composition and performance, the
identification of nonperforming loans, management’s 
  33 


Table of Contents

assessment of the collectability of the loan portfolio, and loss experience, as well as economic and market factors. Non-interest income consists primarily of fee revenue from Trust and
Investments, mortgage banking, capital markets products, treasury management, loan and credit-related fees, and other services charges and fees. Net securities gains/losses, if any, are also included in non-interest income. 
Net Interest Income  Net interest income equals the excess of interest income (including discount accretion on covered loans) plus fees earned on interest-earning assets over interest expense incurred on interest-bearing
liabilities. The level of interest rates and the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities impact net interest income.  Interest rate spread and net interest margin are utilized to measure and explain changes in net interest income. Interest rate spread is the difference between the yield on interest-earning assets and the
rate paid for interest-bearing liabilities that fund those assets. The net interest margin is expressed as the percentage of net interest income to average interest-earning assets. The net interest margin exceeds the interest rate spread because
noninterest-bearing sources of funds, principally noninterest-bearing demand deposits and stockholders’ equity, also support interest-earning assets.  The accounting policies underlying the recognition of interest income on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets are included in Note 1 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Our accounting and reporting policies conform to U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and general practice within the financial services industry. For purposes of this discussion, net interest income and any ratios or metrics that include net interest income as a component, such as for
example, net interest margin, have been adjusted to a fully tax-equivalent basis to more appropriately compare the returns on certain tax-exempt securities to those on taxable interest-earning assets. Although we believe that these non-U.S. GAAP
financial measures enhance investors’ understanding of our business and performance, these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should not be considered an alternative to U.S. GAAP. The reconciliation of tax-equivalent net interest income is
presented in the following table.  Table 1  Effect of Tax-Equivalent Adjustment  (Dollars in thousands) 
 
























 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
% Change
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 2011-2010 
 
 
 2010-2009 
 

 Net interest income (U.S. GAAP)
 
 $
    407,127 
  
 
 $
    400,957 
  
 
 $
    324,984 
  
 
 
1.5 
  
 
 
23.4 
  

 Tax-equivalent adjustment
 
 
2,857 
  
 
 
3,577 
  
 
 
3,612 
  
 
 
-20.1 
  
 
 
-1.0 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tax-equivalent net interest income
 
 $
409,984 
  
 
 $
404,534 
  
 
 $
328,596 
  
 
 
1.3 
  
 
 
23.1 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Table 2 summarizes the changes in our average interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities as
well as the average interest rates earned and paid on these assets and liabilities, respectively, for the three years ended December 31, 2011. The table also presents the trend in net interest margin on a quarterly basis for 2011 and 2010,
including the tax-equivalent yields on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Table 3 below details variances in income and expense for each of the major categories of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities and indicates the extent to which such variances are attributable to volume and rate changes. Interest income and yields are presented on a tax-equivalent basis assuming a federal income tax rate of 35%, through inclusion of the
tax-equivalent adjustment as presented in Table 1 above. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Table 2  Net Interest Income and Margin Analysis  (Dollars in thousands) 
 









































 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
AverageBalance
 
 
Interest (1)
 
 
Yield/Rate(%)
 
 
AverageBalance
 
 
Interest (1)
 
 
Yield/Rate(%)
 
 
AverageBalance
 
 
Interest (1)
 
 
Yield/Rate(%)
 

 Assets:
 



 



 


 
 



 



 


 
 



 



 




 Federal funds sold and other short-term investments
 
 $
463,742 
  
 
 $
1,181 
  
 
 
0.25 
  
 
 $
733,841 
  
 
 $
1,950 
  
 
 
0.27 
  
 
 $
205,104 
  
 
  $
1,112 
  
 
 
0.54 
  

 Securities:
 



 



 


 
 



 



 


 
 



 



 




 Taxable
 
 
1,891,173 
  
 
 
61,417 
  
 
 
3.25 
  
 
 
1,654,885 
  
 
 
64,316 
  
 
 
3.89 
  
 
 
1,293,857 
  
 
 
58,663 
  
 
 
4.53 
  

 Tax-exempt (2)
 
 
140,707 
  
 
 
8,296 
  
 
 
5.90 
  
 
 
165,535 
  
 
 
10,352 
  
 
 
6.25 
  
 
 
163,375 
  
 
 
10,719 
  
 
 
6.56 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total securities
 
 
2,031,880 
  
 
 
69,713 
  
 
 
3.43 
  
 
 
1,820,420 
  
 
 
74,668 
  
 
 
4.10 
  
 
 
1,457,232 
  
 
 
69,382 
  
 
 
4.76 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loans, excluding covered assets:
 



 



 


 
 



 



 


 
 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
5,130,839 
  
 
 
240,123 
  
 
 
4.68 
  
 
 
4,442,350 
  
 
 
206,013 
  
 
 
4.64 
  
 
 
4,032,551 
  
 
 
182,390 
  
 
 
4.52 
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
2,640,297 
  
 
 
112,091 
  
 
 
4.25 
  
 
 
3,080,086 
  
 
 
133,903 
  
 
 
4.35 
  
 
 
2,914,125 
  
 
 
133,544 
  
 
 
4.58 
  

 Construction
 
 
397,771 
  
 
 
14,937 
  
 
 
3.76 
  
 
 
620,937 
  
 
 
22,047 
  
 
 
3.55 
  
 
 
889,226 
  
 
 
30,012 
  
 
 
3.38 
  

 Residential
 
 
325,606 
  
 
 
14,070 
  
 
 
4.32 
  
 
 
349,494 
  
 
 
16,546 
  
 
 
4.73 
  
 
 
463,493 
  
 
 
18,170 
  
 
 
3.92 
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
438,266 
  
 
 
15,751 
  
 
 
3.59 
  
 
 
508,274 
  
 
 
19,163 
  
 
 
3.77 
  
 
 
516,850 
  
 
 
19,995 
  
 
 
3.87 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans, excluding covered assets
(3)
 
 
8,932,779 
  
 
 
396,972 
  
 
 
4.44 
  
 
 
9,001,141 
  
 
 
397,672 
  
 
 
4.42 
  
 
 
8,816,245 
  
 
 
384,111 
  
 
 
4.36 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets before covered assets
(2)
 
 
11,428,401 
  
 
 
467,866 
  
 
 
4.09 
  
 
 
11,555,402 
  
 
 
474,290 
  
 
 
4.10 
  
 
 
10,478,581 
  
 
 
454,605 
  
 
 
4.34 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Covered assets (4)
 
 
317,631 
  
 
 
16,137 
  
 
 
5.08 
  
 
 
422,962 
  
 
 
37,212 
  
 
 
8.80 
  
 
 
261,538 
  
 
 
27,719 
  
 
 
10.60 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets (2)
 
 
11,746,032 
  
 
 $
484,003 
  
 
 
4.12 
  
 
 
11,978,364 
  
 
 $
    511,502 
  
 
 
4.27 
  
 
 
10,740,119 
  
 
  $
  482,324 
  
 
 
4.49 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and due from banks
 
 
158,655 
  
 



 


 
 
 
152,346 
  
 



 


 
 
 
161,513 
  
 



 




 Allowance for loan and covered loan losses
 
 
(237,038)
  
 



 


 
 
 
(244,484)
  
 



 


 
 
 
(145,187)
  
 



 




 Other assets
 
 
685,475 
  
 



 


 
 
 
669,219 
  
 



 


 
 
 
463,579 
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 


 
 
  
  
 
 



 


 
 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total assets
 
 $
    12,353,124 
  
 



 


 
 
 $
12,555,445 
  
 



 


 
 
 $
11,220,024 
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 


 
 
  
  
 
 



 


 
 
  
  
 
 



 




   Liabilities and
Equity:
 



 



 


 
 



 



 


 
 



 



 




 Interest-bearing demand deposits
 
 $
587,453 
  
 
$
2,439 
  
 
 
0.42 
  
 
 $
699,598 
  
 
$
3,148 
  
 
 
0.45 
  
 
 $
492,466 
  
 
  $
2,646 
  
 
 
0.54 
  

 Savings deposits
 
 
205,814 
  
 
 
786 
  
 
 
0.38 
  
 
 
170,268 
  
 
 
948 
  
 
 
0.56 
  
 
 
76,785 
  
 
 
598 
  
 
 
0.78 
  

 Money market accounts
 
 
4,413,971 
  
 
 
22,171 
  
 
 
0.50 
  
 
 
4,690,019 
  
 
 
33,483 
  
 
 
0.71 
  
 
 
3,391,521 
  
 
 
29,037 
  
 
 
0.86 
  

 Time deposits
 
 
1,354,246 
  
 
 
16,947 
  
 
 
1.25 
  
 
 
1,499,713 
  
 
 
22,387 
  
 
 
1.49 
  
 
 
1,657,781 
  
 
 
35,397 
  
 
 
2.14 
  

 Brokered deposits
 
 
1,210,424 
  
 
 
7,729 
  
 
 
0.64 
  
 
 
1,341,254 
  
 
 
14,071 
  
 
 
1.05 
  
 
 
1,820,613 
  
 
 
43,938 
  
 
 
2.41 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing deposits
 
 
7,771,908 
  
 
 
50,072 
  
 
 
0.64 
  
 
 
8,400,852 
  
 
 
74,037 
  
 
 
0.88 
  
 
 
7,439,166 
  
 
 
111,616 
  
 
 
1.50 
  

 Short-term borrowings
 
 
74,918 
  
 
 
2,011 
  
 
 
2.68 
  
 
 
180,439 
  
 
 
5,088 
  
 
 
2.82 
  
 
 
673,071 
  
 
 
8,094 
  
 
 
1.20 
  

 Long-term debt
 
 
401,779 
  
 
 
21,936 
  
 
 
5.46 
  
 
 
476,400 
  
 
 
27,843 
  
 
 
5.84 
  
 
 
611,866 
  
 
 
34,018 
  
 
 
5.56 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing liabilities
 
 
8,248,605 
  
 
 
74,019 
  
 
 
0.90 
  
 
 
9,057,691 
  
 
 
106,968 
  
 
 
1.18 
  
 
 
8,724,103 
  
 
 
153,728 
  
 
 
1.76 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Noninterest-bearing demand deposits
 
 
2,669,924 
  
 



 


 
 
 
2,083,874 
  
 



 


 
 
 
1,236,053 
  
 



 




 Other liabilities
 
 
163,756 
  
 



 


 
 
 
166,742 
  
 



 


 
 
 
111,826 
  
 



 




 Equity
 
 
1,270,839 
  
 



 


 
 
 
1,247,138 
  
 



 


 
 
 
1,148,042 
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 


 
 
  
  
 
 



 


 
 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total liabilities and equity
 
 $
12,353,124 
  
 



 


 
 
 $
    12,555,445 
  
 



 


 
 
 $
    11,220,024 
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 


 
 
  
  
 
 



 


 
 
  
  
 
 



 




   Net interest
spread
 



 



 
 
3.22 
  
 



 



 
 
3.09 
  
 



 



 
 
2.73 
  

 Effect of noninterest-bearing funds
 



 



 
 
0.27 
  
 



 



 
 
0.29 
  
 



 



 
 
0.33 
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net interest income/margin (2)
 



 
 $
    409,984 
  
 
 
    3.49 
  
 



 
 $
404,534 
  
 
 
  3.38 
  
 



 
  $
328,596 
  
 
 
    3.06 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 



  
 

  35 


Table of Contents
Quarterly Net Interest Margin Trend 
 




































 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
    Fourth    
 
  
    Third    
 
  
    Second    
 
  
    First    
 
  
    Fourth    
 
  
    Third    
 
  
    Second    
 
  
    First    
 











 Yield on interest-earning assets (2)
  
 
4.04%  
  
  
 
4.11%  
  
  
 
4.01%  
  
  
 
4.15%  
  
  
 
4.08%  
  
  
 
4.13%  
  
  
 
4.32%  
  
  
 
4.37%  
  











 Yield on interest-earning assets, before covered assets
(2)
  
 
4.05%  
  
  
 
4.08%  
  
  
 
3.98%  
  
  
 
4.09%  
  
  
 
4.03%  
  
  
 
4.10%  
  
  
 
4.02%  
  
  
 
4.10%  
  











 Cost of interest-bearing liabilities
  
 
0.85%  
  
  
 
0.90%  
  
  
 
0.90%  
  
  
 
0.93%  
  
  
 
1.01%  
  
  
 
1.14%  
  
  
 
1.21%  
  
  
 
1.34%  
  











 Net interest margin (2)
  
 
3.48%  
  
  
 
3.49%  
  
  
 
3.36%  
  
  
 
3.46%  
  
  
 
3.33%  
  
  
 
3.28%  
  
  
 
3.39%  
  
  
 
3.33%  
  











 Covered asset accretion contribution to net interest margin
  
 
-%  
  
  
 
0.03%  
  
  
 
0.03%  
  
  
 
0.05%  
  
  
 
0.05%  
  
  
 
0.03%  
  
  
 
0.28%  
  
  
 
0.25%  
  











 Net interest margin, excluding impact of covered asset accretion (2)
  
 
3.48%  
  
  
 
3.46%  
  
  
 
3.33%  
  
  
 
3.41%  
  
  
 
3.28%  
  
  
 
3.25%  
  
  
 
3.11%  
  
  
 
3.08%  
  



  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Interest income included $24.4 million, $21.3 million, and $17.9 million in loan fees for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively.   


 
(2) 
 Interest income and yields are presented on a tax-equivalent basis, assuming a federal income tax rate of 35%. See Table 1 for a reconciliation of the
effect of the tax-equivalent adjustment.   


 
(3) 
 Average loans on a nonaccrual basis for the recognition of interest income totaled $340.7 million for 2011, $400.1 million for 2010, and $246.5 million
for 2009 and are included in loans for purposes of this analysis. Interest foregone on impaired loans was estimated to be approximately $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, $17.2 million for 2010 and $10.7 million for 2009, and
was based on the average loan portfolio yield for the respective period.   


 
(4) 
 Covered interest-earning assets consist of loans acquired through a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) assisted transaction that
are subject to a loss share agreement and the related indemnification asset. Refer to the section entitled “Covered Assets” for a detailed discussion. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Table 3 
Changes in Net Interest Income Applicable to Volumes and Interest Rates (1) 
(Amounts in thousands)   






























 
  
2011 compared to 2010
 
 
 
  
2010 compared to 2009
 

 
  
Volume
 
  
Rate
 
  
Total
 
 
  
  
Volume
 
  
Rate
 
  
Total
 

 Federal funds sold and other short-term investments
  
 $
(691) 
  
  
 $
(78) 
  
  
 $
(769) 
  
 
 
  
 $
1,646  
  
  
 $
(808) 
  
  
 $
838  
  

 Securities:
  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  




 Taxable
  
 
8,482  
  
  
 
(11,381) 
  
  
 
(2,899) 
  
 
 
  
 
14,823  
  
  
 
(9,170) 
  
  
 
5,653  
  

 Tax-exempt (2)
  
 
(1,489) 
  
  
 
(567) 
  
  
 
(2,056) 
  
 
 
  
 
140  
  
  
 
(507) 
  
  
 
(367) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities
  
 
6,993  
  
  
 
(11,948) 
  
  
 
(4,955) 
  
 
 
  
 
14,963  
  
  
 
(9,677) 
  
  
 
5,286  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Loans, excluding covered assets:
  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  




 Commercial
  
 
32,205  
  
  
 
1,905  
  
  
 
34,110  
  
 
 
  
 
18,910  
  
  
 
4,713  
  
  
 
23,623  
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
(18,734) 
  
  
 
(3,078) 
  
  
 
(21,812) 
  
 
 
  
 
7,400  
  
  
 
(7,041) 
  
  
 
359  
  

 Construction
  
 
(8,317) 
  
  
 
1,207  
  
  
 
(7,110) 
  
 
 
  
 
(9,457) 
  
  
 
1,492  
  
  
 
(7,965) 
  

 Residential
  
 
(1,088) 
  
  
 
(1,388) 
  
  
 
(2,476) 
  
 
 
  
 
(4,972) 
  
  
 
3,348  
  
  
 
(1,624) 
  

 Personal and home equity
  
 
(2,547) 
  
  
 
(865) 
  
  
 
(3,412) 
  
 
 
  
 
(328) 
  
  
 
(504) 
  
  
 
(832) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans, excluding covered assets
  
 
1,519  
  
  
 
(2,219) 
  
  
 
(700) 
  
 
 
  
 
11,553  
  
  
 
2,008  
  
  
 
13,561  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets before covered assets (2)
  
 
7,821  
  
  
 
(14,245) 
  
  
 
(6,424) 
  
 
 
  
 
28,162  
  
  
 
(8,477) 
  
  
 
19,685  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Covered assets (3)
  
 
(7,815) 
  
  
 
(13,260) 
  
  
 
(21,075) 
  
 
 
  
 
14,829  
  
  
 
(5,336) 
  
  
 
9,493  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets (2)
  
 
6  
  
  
 
(27,505) 
  
  
 
(27,499) 
  
 
 
  
 
42,991  
  
  
 
(13,813) 
  
  
 
29,178  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interest-bearing demand deposits
  
 
(479) 
  
  
 
(230) 
  
  
 
(709) 
  
 
 
  
 
982  
  
  
 
(480) 
  
  
 
502  
  

 Savings deposits
  
 
173  
  
  
 
(335) 
  
  
 
(162) 
  
 
 
  
 
559  
  
  
 
(209) 
  
  
 
350  
  

 Money market accounts
  
 
(1,874) 
  
  
 
(9,438) 
  
  
 
(11,312) 
  
 
 
  
 
9,829  
  
  
 
(5,383) 
  
  
 
4,446  
  

 Time deposits
  
 
(2,039) 
  
  
 
(3,401) 
  
  
 
(5,440) 
  
 
 
  
 
(3,131) 
  
  
 
(9,879) 
  
  
 
(13,010) 
  

 Brokered deposits
  
 
(1,265) 
  
  
 
(5,077) 
  
  
 
(6,342) 
  
 
 
  
 
(9,490) 
  
  
 
(20,377) 
  
  
 
(29,867) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing deposits
  
 
(5,484) 
  
  
 
(18,481) 
  
  
 
(23,965) 
  
 
 
  
 
(1,251) 
  
  
 
(36,328) 
  
  
 
(37,579) 
  

 Short-term borrowings
  
 
(2,843) 
  
  
 
(234) 
  
  
 
(3,077) 
  
 
 
  
 
(8,732) 
  
  
 
5,726  
  
  
 
(3,006) 
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
(4,159) 
  
  
 
(1,748) 
  
  
 
(5,907) 
  
 
 
  
 
(7,845) 
  
  
 
1,670  
  
  
 
(6,175) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing liabilities
  
 
  (12,486) 
  
  
 
  (20,463) 
  
  
 
  (32,949) 
  
 
 
  
 
  (17,828) 
  
  
 
  (28,932) 
  
  
 
  (46,760) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest income (2)
  
 $
12,492  
  
  
 $
(7,042) 
  
  
 $
5,450  
  
 
 
  
 $
60,819  
  
  
 $
15,119  
  
  
 $
75,938  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 For purposes of this table, changes which are not due solely to volume changes or rate changes are allocated to such categories in proportion to the
absolute amounts of the change in each.   


 
(2) 
 Interest income is presented on a tax-equivalent basis, assuming a federal income tax rate of 35%. See Table 1 for a reconciliation of the effect of
the tax-equivalent adjustment.   


 
(3) 
 Covered interest-earning assets consist of loans acquired through an FDIC-assisted transaction that are subject to a loss share agreement and the
related indemnification asset. Refer to the section entitled “Covered Assets” for a detail discussion.  2011 Compared to 2010  For 2011, net interest margin was 3.49%, an
increase of 11 basis points from 3.38% for 2010. The improvement results from a 24 basis point decrease in the average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits and an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits, offset partially by a decrease in the
yield on the investment portfolio as discussed below. Also, the shift in the mix of the loan portfolio toward higher-yielding commercial loans and some large non-recurring loan fees increased the average interest rate earned on loans by two basis
points. Along with the shift in the mix of the loan portfolio to higher-yielding commercial loans, the level of average nonperforming loans year-over-year was reduced by $59.3 million, mitigating any pricing compression seen within the commercial
loan portfolio as well as the $21.1 million reduction in interest income on covered assets from the prior year. The lower interest rate environment negatively impacted the yield on the investment portfolio, resulting in a year-over-year reduction in
interest income on a tax-equivalent basis of $5.0 million, despite the $211.5 million increase in the average balance of total securities.  We do not anticipate significant continued benefit to net interest margin in future periods from downward repricing of deposits. Heightened competition, in the face of limited middle market loan demand,
could also pressure loan pricing and loan growth in the near term, although year to date we have been successful in maintaining overall yield on our commercial loan portfolio. This reflects 
  37 


Table of Contents

higher lending yields in specialized areas that we have pursued, lower levels of nonperforming loans, and some large nonrecurring loans fees. The reshaping of our loan mix, increases in
short-term interest rates, and further reduction in nonperforming loans may help to mitigate the impact of loan pricing compression on net interest margin in future periods.  In 2011, we initiated the use of interest rate derivatives as part of our asset liability management strategy to hedge interest rate risk in our primarily floating-rate loan portfolio and, depending on
market conditions, including the slope of the yield curve, we intend to enter into additional interest rate swaps. A description and analysis of our market risk and interest rate sensitivity profile and management policies is included in
Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Form 10-K.  2010 Compared to
2009  For 2010, net interest margin was 3.38%, an increase of 32 basis points from 3.06% in 2009. A higher volume of
interest-earning assets positively impacted interest income by $43.0 million, while a decline in the average rate earned on covered assets and securities had a negative impact of $13.8 million. Despite an increase of $177.0 million on average
nonaccrual loans from 2009 to 2010, the yield on loans, excluding covered assets, improved six basis points from 2009. The increase in loan yields reflects a change in loan mix more heavily weighted to higher-yielding commercial loans than
lower-yielding commercial real estate loans. Lower short-term interest rates and deposit repricing initiatives decreased interest expense by $36.3 million, offset in part by higher interest rates paid on borrowings. While total average
interest-bearing liabilities increased during 2010, a favorable shift in the mix lowered the amount of higher cost funding and led to a $17.8 million reduction in interest expense due to volume. Increases in net interest margin and interest income
for 2010 include the benefit of a full year of higher interest earning covered assets from the mid-2009 FDIC-assisted acquisition. Covered asset accretion positively impacted net interest margin by 15 and 13 basis points for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Provision for loan losses 
The provision for loan losses, excluding the provision for covered loans, totaled $130.6 million in 2011, compared to $192.0 million in
2010 and $198.9 million in 2009. The provision for loan losses is a function of our allowance for loan loss methodology used to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for inherent loan losses after net charge-offs have been deducted. Net
charge-offs were $161.8 million in 2011, compared to $190.9 million in 2010 and $89.9 million in 2009. For further analysis and information on how we determine the appropriate level for the allowance for loan losses and analysis of credit quality,
see “Critical Accounting Policies” and “Credit Quality Management and Allowance for Loan Losses.”  Provision for
covered loan losses  For 2011, we recognized $2.3 million in provision for covered loan losses related to the loans
purchased under the FDIC-assisted transaction loss share agreement, compared to $2.5 million in 2010 and $553,000 in 2009. The provision for covered loan losses represents the 20% portion of expected losses on covered loans not reimbursed by the
FDIC. For information regarding the FDIC-assisted transaction, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Covered Assets.” 
  38 


Table of Contents
Non-interest Income  Non-interest income is derived from a number of sources related to our banking activities, including loan and credit-related fees, the sale of derivative products to clients through our capital markets
group, treasury management services, and fees from our Trust and Investments business. The following table presents a break-out of these multiple sources of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
Table 4 
Non-interest Income Analysis  (Dollars in thousands)   
























 
 
Years ended December 31,
 
 
% Change
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 2011-2010 
 
 
 2010-2009 
 

 Trust and Investments
 
 $
    17,826 
  
 
 $
18,140 
  
 
 $
    15,459  
  
 
 
-1.7 
  
 
 
17.3 
  

 Mortgage banking
 
 
6,703 
  
 
 
10,187 
  
 
 
8,930  
  
 
 
-34.2 
  
 
 
14.1 
  

 Capital markets products
 
 
19,341 
  
 
 
14,286 
  
 
 
17,150  
  
 
 
35.4 
  
 
 
-16.7 
  

 Treasury management
 
 
19,923 
  
 
 
16,920 
  
 
 
10,148  
  
 
 
17.7 
  
 
 
66.7 
  

 Loan and credit-related fees
 
 
22,207 
  
 
 
16,526 
  
 
 
12,888  
  
 
 
34.4 
  
 
 
28.2 
  

 Other income, service charges, and fees
 
 
6,476 
  
 
 
5,005 
  
 
 
499  
  
 
 
29.4 
  
 
 
n/m 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal fee revenue
 
 
92,476 
  
 
 
81,064 
  
 
 
65,074  
  
 
 
14.1 
  
 
 
24.6 
  

 Net securities gains
 
 
5,771 
  
 
 
12,182 
  
 
 
7,381  
  
 
 
-52.6 
  
 
 
65.0 
  

 Early extinguishment of debt
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
(985) 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
n/m 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest income
 
 $
98,247 
  
 
 $
    93,246 
  
 
 $
71,470  
  
 
 
5.4 
  
 
 
30.5 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 n/m   Not meaningful 
2011 Compared to 2010  Non-interest income for 2011 was $98.2 million, an increase of $5.0 million, or 5%, compared to the prior year period, with all major categories, excluding mortgage banking and Trust and Investments,
contributing to the year-over-year growth. Excluding securities gains, non-interest income increased by $11.4 million or 14% to $92.5 million for 2011, compared to $81.1 million for 2010. 
Trust and Investments fee revenue declined slightly, by 2%, from 2010 levels. During 2011, we gained momentum in carrying out our
strategic initiative to retool and enhance our wealth management business and services through the addition and expansion of new and existing clients. However, Trust and Investments fee revenue for 2011 was impacted by certain nonrecurring larger
estate fees recognized in the prior year period, lower retail tax preparation fees, lower fees from our land trust business, which was sold in early 2011 and some client attrition. Also, due to the implementation of a new strategic approach to
servicing our client’s investment portfolios which creates a greater reliance on pooled investment vehicles, such as mutual funds and ETFs, and a reduction in using third party account managers, fees were negatively impacted with a commensurate
reduction to investment expenses. In addition, Trust and Investment fee revenue is largely dependent on the composition and valuation of assets under management and administration (“AUMA”), and for 2011, there were lower comparative values
of AUMA on the date of fee measurement as compared to the prior year. For approximately 89% of the AUMA portfolio whose fees are generated off the value of the assets as of December 31, 2011, the billing date is the last date of the preceding
quarter or month creating fluctuations in the fees recognized during the period which may differ from fluctuations in period-end AUMA. AUMA includes assets held in trusts where we serve as trustee, accounts where we make investment decisions on
behalf of clients, and non-managed assets we hold in custody for clients or for which we receive fees for advisory or brokerage services. Excluding $299.1 million in deposits included in AUMA, we do not include these assets on our Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition.  Revenue from our mortgage banking business was lower by $3.5 million, or 34%, from 2010,
as the prior year experienced an extended period of lower mortgage interest rates and higher refinancing activity as compared to the current year. Unlike the prior year, in 2011, significant refinancing application volume did not begin until the
drop in interest rates in August. Application volume remained strong until the end of 2011, and as such, we anticipate this positive trend will continue through the first quarter of 2012. 
Capital markets products income increased $5.1 million from 2010 and included a $719,000 negative credit valuation adjustment
(“CVA”) compared to a negative CVA of $1.6 million for 2010. The CVA represents the credit component of fair value with regard to both client-based derivatives and the related matched derivatives with interbank dealer counterparties.
Exclusive of CVA, capital markets income increased to $20.1 million in 2011 compared to $15.9 million in 2010, and was primarily attributable to increased 
  39 


Table of Contents

client interest rate swap fees resulting from both loan originations and renewals, larger margin transactions in the current year, and higher foreign exchange revenue from increased transactions
as part of our clients’ ongoing business activities, a small number of large transactions and increased volatility in foreign exchange markets. Approximately 32% of the increase in capital markets revenues came from an increased penetration of
our client base. There can be no assurances such increased penetration will continue.  Our treasury management group offers a
full range of receivables and payables services in addition to online banking and reporting. These products and services include remote capture, liquidity management and lockbox services which are often linked to non-interest and interest-bearing
deposits. Treasury management income increased $3.0 million, or 18%, from 2010. Revenue growth is closely correlated with acquisition of new middle market lending clients with loan growth, though subject to a three to six month lag of
implementation. The current year increase reflects ongoing success in cross-selling treasury management services to new and existing commercial clients as well as the full year impact of new clients added during 2010. In addition, during 2011, our
earnings credit rate (the rate applied to balances maintained in the client’s deposit account to offset activity charges) remained in-line with market and deposit interest rates, declining slightly during the year and providing a small
contribution to the overall increase in fees.  Loan and credit related fees include income generated from letters of credit,
unused commitments, loan syndications and various non-yield loan fees. Loan and credit related fees increased $5.7 million, or 34%, from the prior year and is principally due to a higher volume of syndication revenue driven by increased lead agency
credits as we leveraged our reputation for execution and expended distribution network. Letter of credit and unused commitment fees were also higher in the current year.  Certain fee revenue is earned contemporaneously with or shortly after successfully generating new client relationships and related loans. However, we also expect additional fee revenue from those new
clients over time as we penetrate deeper within those relationships and execute upon our cross-sell strategy. Given the more than $1.4 billion in new client relationships during 2011, as well as the mix of our loan portfolio being predominately
commercial (60% of our total loans as of December 31, 2011 were commercial), which we believe provides the most cross-sell opportunity, we may see additional fee revenues from these new clients in the future. 
Other income, service charges, and fees increased $1.5 million, or 29%, from 2010. The increase was primarily due to $938,000 in gains on
various asset dispositions in 2011, including the sale of our land trust business earlier in the year, as well as $564,000 in losses in the prior year on loans held for sale.  Net securities gains totaled $5.8 million for 2011, compared to $12.2 million for the prior year. During 2011, we sold $290.1 million of securities, which included $188.8 million of collateralized
mortgage obligations, $66.0 million of residential mortgage-backed securities, $15.8 million in U.S. Agencies, and $19.5 million of state and municipal securities. The sales assisted in managing prepayment risk and provided a measure of benefit to
our capital position. We frequently evaluate our securities and from time to time may take advantage of what we perceive to be pricing opportunities in the market for specific investments. 
2010 Compared to 2009  Total non-interest income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $93.2 million, an increase of $21.8 million, or 30%, from $71.5 million in 2009, reflecting continued success in penetrating and
cross-selling targeted middle market commercial relationships. Our total fee revenue for 2010 was $81.1 million, an increase of $16.0 million, or 25%, from $65.1 million in 2009. 
Treasury management income increased $6.8 million, or 67%, from 2009. This increase was attributable to improved capabilities in offering
a broader suite of products and services to new and existing clients and increasing penetration in our clients’ transaction-based activities.  Trust and Investments income increased $2.7 million, or 17%, from 2009 and was attributable to increases in the value of AUMA, in part due to improved equity and fixed income market performance. Total
AUMA totaled $4.0 billion, increasing by $288.0 million, or 7%, from December 31, 2009 to $4.3 billion at December 31, 2010.  Mortgage banking income increased $1.3 million, or 14%, from 2009, reflecting the broader industry trend of increased refinancing based on the low interest rate environment that prevailed during 2010.
 Capital markets income decreased $2.9 million, or 17%, from 2009. Of the $2.9 million decrease, $2.4 million represents
changes in the credit valuation adjustment, with an $838,000 positive CVA in 2009 and a negative $1.6 million CVA in 2010. Exclusive of CVA adjustments, capital markets income decreased 3% year-over-year, reflecting the reduced client demand for
interest-rate derivatives, offset by a $1.9 million increase in foreign exchange revenues, resulting from our implementation of enhanced client interface tools to improve our foreign exchange product offering. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Loan and credit related fees increased $3.6 million, or 28%, from the prior year principally
due to new commercial loan originations and increased cross-sell penetration which drove a $2.9 million of growth in unused commitment, loan, and letter of credit fees from the prior year. 
Other income, service charges, and fees totaled $5.0 million for 2010, compared to $499,000 for 2009. The increase was primarily due to a
$3.6 million decrease in losses on loans held for sale from the prior year, which totaled $564,000 in 2010 and $4.2 million in 2009.  Net securities gains increased $4.8 million, or 65%, from 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we took advantage of market conditions to sell $432.9 million of securities, resulting in a
net gain of $12.2 million. In contrast, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold $265.8 million of securities, resulting in a net gain of $7.4 million.  Non-interest Expense  Table 5 
Non-interest Expense Analysis  (Dollars in thousands)   
























 
  
Years ended December 31,
 
  
% Change
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
  2011-2010  
 
  
  2010-2009  
 

 Compensation expense:
  



  



  



  



  




 Salaries and wages
  
 $
      94,514 
  
  
 $
      91,511 
  
  
 $
      73,533 
  
  
 
3.3  
  
  
 
24.4  
  

 Share-based costs
  
 
15,756 
  
  
 
17,102 
  
  
 
20,696 
  
  
 
-7.9  
  
  
 
-17.4  
  

 Incentive compensation, retirement costs and other employee benefits
  
 
46,493 
  
  
 
41,250 
  
  
 
29,424 
  
  
 
12.7  
  
  
 
40.2  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total compensation expense
  
 
156,763 
  
  
 
149,863 
  
  
 
123,653 
  
  
 
4.6  
  
  
 
21.2  
  

 Net occupancy expense
  
 
29,986 
  
  
 
29,935 
  
  
 
26,170 
  
  
 
0.2  
  
  
 
14.4  
  

 Technology and related costs
  
 
11,388 
  
  
 
10,224 
  
  
 
10,599 
  
  
 
11.4  
  
  
 
-3.5  
  

 Marketing
  
 
8,911 
  
  
 
8,501 
  
  
 
9,843 
  
  
 
4.8  
  
  
 
-13.6  
  

 Professional services
  
 
9,206 
  
  
 
12,931 
  
  
 
16,327 
  
  
 
-28.8  
  
  
 
-20.8  
  

 Outsourced servicing costs
  
 
8,001 
  
  
 
7,807 
  
  
 
4,319 
  
  
 
2.5  
  
  
 
80.8  
  

 Net foreclosed property expense
  
 
27,782 
  
  
 
15,192 
  
  
 
5,675 
  
  
 
82.9  
  
  
 
167.7  
  

 Postage, telephone, and delivery
  
 
3,716 
  
  
 
3,659 
  
  
 
3,060 
  
  
 
1.6  
  
  
 
19.6  
  

 Insurance
  
 
21,287 
  
  
 
26,534 
  
  
 
22,607 
  
  
 
-19.8  
  
  
 
17.4  
  

 Loan and collection
  
 
13,571 
  
  
 
14,623 
  
  
 
9,617 
  
  
 
-7.2  
  
  
 
52.1  
  

 Other expenses
  
 
11,666 
  
  
 
20,329 
  
  
 
15,545 
  
  
 
-42.6  
  
  
 
30.8  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-interest expense
  
 $
302,277 
  
  
 $
299,598 
  
  
 $
247,415 
  
  
 
0.9  
  
  
 
21.1  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Full-time equivalent (“FTE”) employees
  
 
1,045 
  
  
 
1,060 
  
  
 
1,040 
  
  
 
-1.4  
  
  
 
1.9  
  







 Operating efficiency ratios:
  



  



  



  




 Non-interest expense to average assets
  
 
2.45% 
  
  
 
2.39% 
  
  
 
2.21% 
  
  



  




 Net overhead ratio (1)
  
 
1.65% 
  
  
 
1.64% 
  
  
 
1.57% 
  
  



  




 Efficiency ratio (2)
  
 
59.48% 
  
  
 
60.19% 
  
  
 
61.84% 
  
  



  



  


 
(1)
 
 Computed as non-interest expense, less non-interest income, divided by average total assets. 


 
(2)
 
 Computed as non-interest expense divided by the sum of net interest income on a tax equivalent basis and non-interest income. The efficiency ratio is
presented on a tax-equivalent basis, assuming a federal income tax rate of 35%. See Table 33, “Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures,” for a reconciliation of the effect of the tax-equivalent adjustment. 
2011 Compared to 2010  Non-interest expense totaled $302.3 million for 2011, increasing modestly by $2.7 million, or 1%, from $299.6 million in 2010. Despite continued elevated credit costs, expenses remained relatively flat
year-over-year, reflecting ongoing cost control management. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Compensation expense increased overall by $6.9 million, or 5%, from 2010. Salary and wages
were up 3% largely due to annual merit, promotional and market adjustments, slightly offset by a small decline in the number of employees, as well as lower deferred salary costs related to origination expenses on a comparative basis. Share-based
payment costs were down $1.3 million primarily due to a higher level of forfeiture-related expense reversals on departed and retiring plan participants during 2011. Incentive compensation, retirement costs and other employee benefits were up by $5.2
million compared to 2010, reflecting higher incentive compensation expense in conjunction with the improved financial results of the Company. This increase was partially offset by the favorable impact on current year incentive compensation expense
and accruals of the implementation of a new plan feature requiring a portion of the current year bonus for certain employees to be deferred over a future defined service period. 
Technology and related costs increased $1.2 million, or 11%, from 2010 due to various systems upgrades occurring during 2011 including
our items processing platform and our data network.  Professional services expense, which includes fees paid for legal,
accounting, and consulting services, decreased $3.7 million, or 29%, from 2010. The decrease is primarily due to higher prior year costs relating to risk management consultants, system conversion fees in connection with the integration of the
FDIC-assisted acquisition of the former Founders Bank, and audit fees.  Net foreclosed property expense, which includes
write-downs on foreclosed properties, gains and losses on sales of foreclosed properties, taxes, and other expenses associated with the maintenance of OREO, increased $12.6 million, or 83%, from 2010. The increase in net foreclosed property expenses
is primarily due to higher net losses on the sale of OREO resulting from the accelerated pace of sales, as well as the $37.0 million increase in OREO balances during 2011 due to the rate of nonperforming loan workouts surpassing asset dispositions
and higher valuation write-downs resulting from updated appraisals during 2011 as compared to 2010. In 2011, we incurred $9.1 million in net losses on sale of OREO compared to $1.4 million in 2010. Also, OREO write-downs totaled $15.4 million for
2011 compared to $6.6 million for the prior year. While the balance of nonperforming loans has steadily decreased throughout 2011, they were $259.9 million at year end. As a result of this and current OREO balances, we expect net foreclosed property
expense to remain at elevated levels as we actively resolve problem loans and liquidate OREO. In evaluating to sell OREO, we seek to maximize our ultimate net recovery. The timing of dispositions will depend on a number of factors, including the
pace and timing of the overall recovery of the economy, activity and pricing levels in the real estate market and real estate inventory coming onto the market for sale.  Insurance expense decreased $5.2 million, or 20%, from 2010, primarily due to lower deposit insurance assessments as a result of the change in FDIC insurance assessment methodology. In February 2011, the
FDIC adopted final rules amending the deposit insurance assessment regulations, modifying, among other provisions, the assessment base from one based on domestic deposits to one based on total assets less average tangible equity. The final rules
took effect April 1, 2011, impacting assessments beginning in the second quarter 2011.  Loan and collection expense,
which consists of certain non-reimbursable costs associated with performing loan activities and loan remediation costs of problem and nonperforming loans, decreased $1.1 million, or 7%, from 2010 largely due to a lower level of performing loan costs
largely attributable to reduced refinance volumes on a comparative basis. Overall levels remain elevated given the magnitude of problem asset remediation expense. 
Other expenses decreased $8.7 million, or 43%, from the prior year. Other expenses include various categories such as
bank charges, costs associated with the CDARS® product offering, education-related costs, subscriptions,
provisions for unfunded commitments and miscellaneous losses and expenses. The decrease was primarily due to an $842,000 reduction of the reserve for unfunded commitments in 2011, compared to a provision for unfunded commitments of $6.7 million
recorded in 2010, as the clients’ average credit quality has improved, while at the same time the level of propensity to fund was also lower in the current economic environment. In addition, decreased volume and rates reduced CDARS®
servicing fees by $643,000 from the prior year.  2010 Compared to 2009 
Non-interest expense increased $52.2 million, or 21%, from 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher compensation expense, an
increase in net foreclosed property and loan and collection expenses related to credit deterioration, and a higher provision for unfunded commitments as compared to the prior year. 
Compensation expense increased $26.2 million, or 21%, from 2009 and is largely attributable to higher annual incentive compensation, a
higher level of average FTEs as a result of the FDIC-assisted transaction in mid-2009, and increases in commission-based compensation. Incentive compensation expense was higher in 2010, as the prior year did not include any significant level of
bonus expense due to the loss from continuing operations reported in 2009. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Net occupancy expense increased $3.8 million, or 14%, from 2009. The increase in net
occupancy expense from the prior year reflects $920,000 in additional facility rental expense, $1.4 million in increased depreciation expense, and $802,000 in increased maintenance contract expense related to additional offices acquired in the
FDIC-assisted transaction, as well as our increased office space.  Professional services, which includes fees paid for legal,
accounting, and consulting services, decreased $3.4 million, or 21%, from 2009. The decrease from the prior year relates in part to non-recurring expenses incurred in 2009 in connection with the FDIC-assisted transaction and subsequent integration
activities.  Net foreclosed property expense, which includes write-downs on foreclosed properties, gains and losses on sales
of foreclosed properties, and other expenses associated with the foreclosure process and maintenance of OREO, increased $9.5 million from 2009. The increase in net foreclosed property expense is primarily due to maintenance and administration
associated with a higher volume of OREO properties, coupled with higher valuation write-downs in 2010 as compared to the prior year.  Insurance expense increased $3.9 million, or 17%, from 2009. Excluding the $5.1 million FDIC special assessment in 2009, deposit insurance premiums increased 51% in 2010 due to the combined effect of a
higher deposit base upon which fees are assessed, higher fee rates, and the additional 10 basis point assessment paid on covered transaction accounts exceeding $250,000 under the Transaction Account Guarantee Program. 
Loan and collection expense increased $5.0 million, or 52%, from 2009 due to a higher volume of appraisals and legal costs incurred in
connection with credit remediation efforts on our nonperforming loans.  Other expenses increased $4.8 million, or 31%, from
2009. The increase was attributable to a $6.1 million increase in the provision for unfunded commitments offset by a $1.2 million decrease in restructuring charges primarily relating to 2009.  Income Taxes  Our provision for income taxes includes both federal
and state income tax expense. An analysis of the provision for income taxes and the effective income tax rates for the periods 2009 through 2011 are presented in the following table. 
Table 6 
Income Tax Provision Analysis  (Dollars in thousands)   
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Income (loss) before income tax provision
  
 $
        70,200  
  
  
 $
64   
  
  
 $
(50,380)  
  

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 $
25,660  
  
  
 $
        (1,737)  
  
  
 $
        (20,564)  
  

 Effective income tax (benefit) rate
  
 
36.6%  
  
  
 
n/m   
  
  
 
-40.8%   
  
  






 n/m
  
 Not meaningful
 Generally, our effective income tax rate varies from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%
(federal income tax benefit rate for 2009) principally due to state income taxes, the effects of tax-exempt earnings from municipal securities and bank owned life insurance, non-deductible compensation and business expenses and tax credits.
 For 2011, the effective tax rate was also impacted by a $2.8 million tax benefit associated with the repricing of our
deferred tax asset due to a change in the Illinois corporate income tax rate that became effective during the first quarter. Excluding this one-time benefit in 2011, our effective income tax rate would have been 40.6%. The impact of the Illinois tax
rate increase on 2011 pre-tax earnings increased our effective tax rate by approximately 0.9%. We expect our effective income tax rate in 2012 to be modestly higher than this adjusted 2011 rate (40.6%) due primarily to share price valuation and
its impact on the tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, as discussed below.  The effective tax rate in 2010 was
not meaningful because the small amount of pre-tax income caused the permanent differences described above to disproportionately impact the effective tax rate compared to what would have normally been expected. 
Realization of Deferred Tax Assets  Net deferred tax assets are included in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. 
  43 


Table of Contents
During the first three quarterly periods of 2011, we were in a cumulative pre-tax loss
position for financial statement purposes, measured on a trailing three-year period basis. Under current accounting guidance, this represents significant negative evidence in the assessment of whether deferred tax assets will be realized. At
December 31, 2011, we are no longer in a cumulative book loss position. We have concluded that based on the weight provided by certain positive evidence (discussed below), it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be
realized.  Taxable income in prior years and reversing deferred taxable income amounts provide sources from which deferred tax
assets may be absorbed. Most significantly, however, we have relied on our ability to generate future federal taxable income, exclusive of reversing temporary differences, as the primary source from which deferred tax assets will be absorbed.
 In making the determination at December 31, 2011 that it was more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be
realized, we considered the positive evidence associated with (a) taxable income generated in 2010 and 2011, (b) reversing taxable temporary differences in future periods, (c) our emergence from a cumulative book loss position in
2011, (d) continued improvement in pre-tax, pre-loan loss provision earnings results during 2009-2011, a core source for future taxable income, (e) our reporting of pre-tax profits during most of 2010 and 2011, (f) the concentration
of credit losses in certain segments and vintages of our loan portfolio during the past three years and the relative moderation of credit trends in recent quarters, (g) our excess capital position relative to “well capitalized”
regulatory standards and other industry benchmarks, and (h) no history of federal net operating loss carryforwards and the availability of the 20-year federal net operating loss carryforward period. 
We considered negative evidence associated with the continuing challenging economic conditions as well as both positive and negative
evidence associated with: (a) our accuracy in forecasting operating income and credit costs; and (b) the estimated timing of reversals of deferred deductible and deferred taxable items and the level of such net reversal amounts relative to
earnings run rate assumptions in future periods.  Certain of the factors noted above support our expectation of generating
pre-tax book earnings in future periods. We believe this in turn should give rise to taxable income levels (exclusive of reversing temporary differences) that more likely than not would be sufficient to absorb the deferred tax assets. 
At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $13 million of deferred tax assets that relate to equity compensation awards, including
both unexercised stock options and unvested restricted shares. In both cases, the deferred tax assets may not be fully realized in future periods primarily due to stock price valuation. Currently, most of our stock options are “out of the
money” with an exercise price above our current stock price. Depending in part on changes in our stock price, we could incur tax charges at the expiration date of the options or prior to that time if employees terminate and out-of-the money
options expire, or in certain instances, when employees exercise options. In the case of restricted shares, the tax benefits will not be fully realized if the fair market value of the awards on the vesting/release date is less than the value of the
awards on the grant/modification date.  In such circumstances where there is a “shortfall” in tax benefits on the
exercise, vesting or expiration of an equity award, such “shortfall” amounts are charged to stockholders’ equity if there is a sufficient level of “excess” tax benefits accumulated from prior years. During 2011 and 2010,
such “shortfall” amounts charged to stockholders’ equity totaled $2.6 million and $3.6 million, respectively. In addition, during 2011, we charged $645,000 of such shortfall tax benefits to income tax expense because the balance of
cumulative prior year “excess” tax benefits was reduced to $0. This resulted in an increase in the effective tax rate in 2011. Based on our current stock price level, scheduled vesting of restricted shares and anticipated option
expirations, we expect to incur additional “shortfall” tax charges in 2012 which will put upward pressure on our effective income tax rate as described above. The amount of such “shortfall” charges in 2012 and in future periods
is dependent on changes in our stock price as well as the impact of employee terminations, option exercise decisions and other factors. 
Operating Segments Results  We have three primary business segments: Banking, Trust and Investments, and Holding Company Activities.  Banking  The profitability of our Banking segment is dependent on net
interest income, provision for loan losses, non-interest income, and non-interest expense. The net income for the Banking segment for 2011 was $71.9 million, a $38.2 million increase from net income of $33.7 million for 2010. The increase in net
income for the Banking segment was primarily due to a $61.6 million in lower provision for loan losses offset by $8.8 million in higher non-interest expense in 2011 as compared to the prior year. Net income for the Banking segment increased $28.8
million from 2009 to 2010, which was primarily due to $73.5 million in higher net interest income, offset by $50.7 million in higher non-interest expense during 2010 as compared to the prior year. 
  44 


Table of Contents
Total loans for the Banking segment decreased to $9.0 billion at December 31, 2011,
compared to $9.1 billion at December 31, 2010. Total deposits decreased from December 31, 2010 levels of $10.7 billion to $10.5 billion at December 31, 2011.  Trust and Investments  The Trust and Investments segment includes
investment management, investment advisory, personal trust and estate administration, custodial and escrow, retirement account administration, and brokerage services. Lodestar Investment Counsel, LLC (“Lodestar”), an investment management
firm and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, is included in our Trust and Investments segment. During 2011, we purchased the remaining minority ownership interests of Lodestar held by certain members of Lodestar management, who remain with the
Company in management roles.  Net income attributable to controlling interests from Trust and Investments increased to
$668,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, from a net loss of $20,000 for 2010, and down from $1.0 million for 2009. The increase in net income from 2010 to 2011 is primarily attributable to a decrease in non-interest expense. AUMA remained
relatively flat at $4.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.  Holding Company Activities
 The Holding Company Activities segment consists of parent company-only activity and intersegment eliminations. The
Holding Company’s most significant asset is its investment in its bank subsidiary. Undistributed earnings relating to this investment is not included in the Holding Company financial results. Holding Company financial results are represented
primarily by interest expense on borrowings and operating expenses. Recurring operating expenses consist primarily of share-based compensation and professional fees. The Holding Company Activities segment reported a net loss of $28.2 million for the
year ended December 31, 2011, compared to a net loss of $32.2 million for the same period in 2010 and a net loss of $35.9 million for 2009. The reduction is due to lower interest expense on certain junior subordinated debt securities which have
repriced downward, as well as reduced professional fees.  Additional information about our operating segments are also
discussed in Note 21 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  FINANCIAL CONDITION
 Investment Portfolio Management  We manage our investment portfolio to maximize the return on invested funds within acceptable risk guidelines, to meet pledging and liquidity requirements, and to adjust balance sheet interest rate
sensitivity to attempt to serve as some protection for net interest income levels against the impact of changes in interest rates.  We may adjust the size and composition of our securities portfolio according to a number of factors, including expected liquidity needs, the current and forecasted interest rate environment, our actual
and anticipated balance sheet growth rate, the relative value of various segments of the securities markets, and the broader economic and regulatory environment.  Investments are comprised of debt securities and non-marketable equity investments. Our debt securities portfolio is primarily comprised of residential mortgage-backed pools, collateralized mortgage
obligations, U.S. Treasury and Agency securities, and state and municipal bonds.  Debt securities that are classified as
available-for-sale are carried at fair value and may be sold as part of our asset/liability management strategy in response to changes in interest rates, liquidity needs or significant prepayment risk. Unrealized gains and losses on
available-for-sale securities represent the difference between the aggregated cost and fair value of the portfolio and are reported, on an after-tax basis, as a separate component of equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. This balance
sheet component will fluctuate as current market interest rates and conditions change, which changes affect the aggregate fair value of the portfolio. In periods of significant market volatility, we may experience significant changes in accumulated
other comprehensive income. Accumulated other comprehensive income is not included in the calculation of regulatory capital. 
Debt securities that are classified as held-to-maturity are securities we have the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are
accounted for using historical cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts.  Non-marketable equity
investments include Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) stock and various other equity securities. At December 31, 2011, our investment in FHLB stock was $40.7 million, compared to $20.7 million at December 31, 2010. To increase our
sources of liquidity, during the third quarter 2011, we became a member of the FHLB Chicago and purchased $23.7 million of FHLB Chicago stock. FHLB stock holdings are necessary to maintain FHLB advances and availability. Also included in
non-
  45 


Table of Contents

marketable equity investments are certain interests we have in investment funds that make qualifying investments for purposes of our compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act
(“CRA”). Such investments had a carrying amount of $2.9 million at December 31, 2011.  We do not own any
Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae preferred stock or subordinated debt obligations, bank trust preferred securities, or any sub-prime mortgage-backed securities.  Table 7  Investment Securities Portfolio Valuation Summary
 (Dollars in thousands)   








































 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 
  
As of December 31, 2010
 
  
As of December 31, 2009
 

 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 Available-for-Sale
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
 $
61,521 
  
  
 $
60,590 
  
  
 
2.7
  
  
 $
-
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 
-
  
  
  $
16,970
  
  
  $
16,758
  
  
 
1.1
  

 U.S. Agency securities
  
 
10,034 
  
  
 
10,014 
  
  
 
0.4
  
  
 
10,426
  
  
 
10,155 
  
  
 
0.6
  
  
 
10,315
  
  
 
10,292
  
  
 
0.7
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations
  
 
356,000 
  
  
 
344,078 
  
  
 
15.3
  
  
 
451,721
  
  
 
450,251 
  
  
 
23.7
  
  
 
176,364
  
  
 
168,974
  
  
 
11.0
  

 Residential mortgage- backed securities
  
 
1,189,213 
  
  
 
1,140,555 
  
  
 
51.3
  
  
 
1,247,031
  
  
 
1,222,642 
  
  
 
65.5
  
  
 
1,191,718
  
  
 
1,162,924
  
  
 
74.5
  

 State and municipal securities
  
 
166,197 
  
  
 
154,080 
  
  
 
7.2
  
  
 
172,108
  
  
 
166,209 
  
  
 
9.0
  
  
 
174,174
  
  
 
165,828
  
  
 
10.9
  

 Foreign sovereign debt
  
 
500 
  
  
 
500 
  
  
 
*
  
  
 
500
  
  
 
500 
  
  
 
*
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale
  
 
1,783,465 
  
  
 
1,709,817 
  
  
 
76.9
  
  
 
1,881,786
  
  
 
1,849,757 
  
  
 
98.8
  
  
 
1,569,541
  
  
 
1,524,776
  
  
 
98.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 












 Held-to-Maturity
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Residential mortgage- backed securities
  
 
493,159 
  
  
 
490,072 
  
  
 
21.2
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-
  

 State and municipal securities
  
 
71 
  
  
 
71 
  
  
 
*
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total held-to-maturity
  
 
493,230 
  
  
 
490,143 
  
  
 
21.2
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Non-Marketable Equity Investments
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 FHLB stock
  
 
40,695 
  
  
 
40,695 
  
  
 
1.8
  
  
 
20,694
  
  
 
20,694 
  
  
 
1.1
  
  
 
22,791
  
  
 
22,791
  
  
 
1.4
  

 Other
  
 
2,909 
  
  
 
2,909 
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
2,843
  
  
 
2,843 
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
6,622
  
  
 
6,622
  
  
 
0.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-marketable equity investments
  
 
43,604 
  
  
 
43,604 
  
  
 
1.9
  
  
 
23,537
  
  
 
23,537 
  
  
 
1.2
  
  
 
29,413
  
  
 
29,413
  
  
 
1.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities
  
 $
  2,320,299 
  
  
 $
    2,243,564 
  
  
 
    100.0
  
  
 $
    1,905,323
  
  
 $
  1,873,294 
  
  
 
 100.0
  
  
  $
    1,598,954
  
  
  $
    1,554,189
  
  
 
  100.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
*
 
Less than 0.1%  As of
December 31, 2011, our securities portfolio totaled $2.3 billion, an increase of 22% from $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010. During 2011, purchases in securities totaled $1.1 billion with $557.6 million in the available-for-sale portfolio,
$497.9 million in the held-to-maturity portfolio, and the remaining $24.3 million in non-marketable equity investments, primarily FHLB stock.  During 2011, to mitigate the future other comprehensive income volatility of adding bonds to the available-for-sale portfolio in a low interest rate environment, we established a held-to-maturity
portfolio with the purchase of $490.1 million in residential mortgage-backed securities and $71,000 in state and municipal securities. We anticipate continuing to add opportunistically to the held-to-maturity portfolio. 
The current year purchases in the investment portfolio primarily represent the reinvestment of proceeds from sales, maturities, and
paydowns in largely similar residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, as well as the reinvestment of growth in the balance sheet.  Also, during 2011, we sold $188.8 million of collateralized mortgage obligations, $66.0 million of residential mortgage-backed securities, $19.5 million of state and municipal securities, and $15.8
million in U.S. Agency securities, resulting in a net securities gain of $5.8 million. The sales assisted in managing prepayment risk and provided a measure of benefit to our capital position. 
Investments in collateralized mortgage obligations and residential mortgage-backed securities comprise 88% of the total portfolio at
December 31, 2011. All of the mortgage securities are backed by U.S. Government agencies or issued by U.S. Government-sponsored enterprises. All mortgage securities are composed of fixed-rate, fully-amortizing collateral with final maturities
of 30 years or less. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Investments in debt instruments of state and local municipalities comprised 7% of the total
portfolio at December 31, 2011. This type of security has historically experienced very low default rates and provided a predictable cash flow since generally it is not subject to significant prepayment. Insurance companies regularly provide
credit enhancement to improve the credit rating and liquidity of a municipal bond issuance. Management considers the credit enhancement and underlying municipality credit rating when evaluating a purchase or sale decision. 
At December 31, 2011, our reported equity reflected unrealized net securities gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax, of
$45.1 million, an increase of $25.1 million from December 31, 2010. The change in net unrealized gains compared to the prior year was primarily due to the decrease in interest rates. 
The following table presents the maturities of the different types of investments that we owned at December 31, 2011 and the
corresponding interest rates.  Table 8  Repricing Distribution and Portfolio Yields  (Dollars in thousands)
  




































 
 
As of December 31, 2011
 







 
 
One Year or Less
 
 
One Year to Five Years
 
 
Five Years to Ten Years
 
 
After 10 years
 

 
 
  Amortized  
Cost
 
 
  Yield to  
Maturity
 
 
  Amortized  
Cost
 
 
  Yield to  
Maturity
 
 
  Amortized  
Cost
 
 
  Yield to  
Maturity
 
 
  Amortized  
Cost
 
 
  Yield to  
Maturity
 

 Available-for-Sale
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities
 
 $
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 $
60,590  
  
 
 
1.10%  
  
 
$
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  

 U.S. Agency securities
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
10,014  
  
 
 
2.51%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations (1)
 
 
82,629  
  
 
 
3.16%  
  
 
 
202,059  
  
 
 
3.30%  
  
 
 
55,494  
  
 
 
3.17%  
  
 
 
3,896  
  
 
 
3.32%  
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities (1)
 
 
289,113  
  
 
 
3.40%  
  
 
 
652,629  
  
 
 
3.24%  
  
 
 
176,516  
  
 
 
3.22%  
  
 
 
22,297  
  
 
 
3.21%  
  

 State and municipal securities (2)
 
 
12,430  
  
 
 
6.94%  
  
 
 
62,455  
  
 
 
5.75%  
  
 
 
75,732  
  
 
 
4.75%  
  
 
 
3,463  
  
 
 
7.06%  
  

 Foreign sovereign debt
 
 
500  
  
 
 
1.30%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale
 
 
384,672  
  
 
 
3.46%  
  
 
 
987,747  
  
 
 
3.27%  
  
 
 
307,742  
  
 
 
3.59%  
  
 
 
29,656  
  
 
 
3.68%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 











 Held-to-Maturity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities (1)
 
 
58,267  
  
 
 
2.18%  
  
 
 
286,820  
  
 
 
2.20%  
  
 
 
117,180  
  
 
 
2.22%  
  
 
 
27,805  
  
 
 
2.31%  
  

 State and municipal securities (2)
 
 
23  
  
 
 
2.95%  
  
 
 
48  
  
 
 
3.56%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total held-to-maturity
 
 
58,290  
  
 
 
2.18%  
  
 
 
286,868  
  
 
 
2.20%  
  
 
 
117,180  
  
 
 
2.22%  
  
 
 
27,805  
  
 
 
2.31%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 











 Non-Marketable Equity Investments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 FHLB stock (3)
 
 
40,695  
  
 
 
0.87%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  

 Other
 
 
2,909  
  
 
 
n/a  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-marketable equity investments
 
 
43,604  
  
 
 
0.81%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total securities
 
 $
486,566  
  
 
 
3.07%  
  
 
 $
1,274,615  
  
 
 
3.03%  
  
 
 $
424,922  
  
 
 
3.21%  
  
 
$
57,461
  
 
 
3.01%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 The repricing distributions and yields to maturity of collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-backed securities are based on estimated
future cash flows and prepayments. Actual repricings and yields of the securities may differ from those reflected in the table depending upon actual interest rates and prepayment speeds. 


 
(2) 
 Yields on state and municipal securities are reflected on a tax-equivalent basis, assuming a federal income tax rate of 35%. The maturity date of
state and municipal bonds is based on contractual maturity, unless the bond, based on current market prices, is deemed to have a high probability that a call right will be exercised, in which case the call date is used as the maturity date.



 
(3) 
 The yield on FHLB stock is based on dividend announcements. 



 
n/a 
 Not applicable  LOAN
PORTFOLIO AND CREDIT QUALITY (excluding covered assets)  Our principal source of revenue arises from our lending
activities, primarily composed of interest income and, to a lesser extent, loan origination and commitment fees, net of related costs. The accounting policies underlying the recording of loans in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
and the recognition and/or deferral of interest income and fees, net of costs, arising from lending activities are included in Note 1 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
  47 


Table of Contents
The following discussion of our loan portfolio and credit quality excludes covered assets.
Covered assets represent assets acquired through an FDIC-assisted transaction that are subject to a loss share agreement and are presented separately on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. For additional discussion of covered assets,
refer to Note 6 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Covered Assets.” 
Portfolio Composition  Total loans, excluding covered assets, were $9.0 billion as of December 31, 2011, compared to $9.1 billion at December 31, 2010. We continue to strategically reshape our mix of loan products,
focusing on commercial loan originations to build our portfolio, funding approximately $1.4 billion in new client relationships since year end 2010. The new loan origination activity was offset by payoffs, paydowns, and disposition activity
motivated by our desire to improve asset quality and financial performance. As a result of these ongoing efforts, commercial loans (including owner-occupied commercial real estate loans) increased by $534.6 million during the year and increased as a
proportion of total loans to 60% at December 31, 2011, compared to 53% at December 31, 2010. Commercial real estate and construction loans decreased by $539.2 million, or 16%, and represented 32% of total loans at December 31, 2011,
compared to 38% at December 31, 2010. We may continue to actively seek to exit accounts that no longer align strategically or do not meet return or other performance hurdles. 
The following table presents the composition of our loan portfolio over the past five years. 
Table 9 
Loan Portfolio  (Dollars in thousands)   












































 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
% of  Total  
 
  
2010
 
  
% of  Total  
 
  
2009
 
  
% of  Total  
 
  
2008
 
  
% of  Total  
 
  
2007
 
  
% of  Total  
 













 Commercial
  
 $
5,399,761 
  
  
 
59.9 
  
  
 $
4,865,168 
  
  
 
53.3 
  
  
 $
4,316,002 
  
  
 
47.7 
  
  
 $
3,593,311 
  
  
 
44.9 
  
  
 $
780,719 
  
  
 
18.7 
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
2,610,459 
  
  
 
29.0 
  
  
 
2,905,878 
  
  
 
31.9 
  
  
 
3,101,166 
  
  
 
34.3 
  
  
 
2,754,876 
  
  
 
34.4 
  
  
 
2,135,197 
  
  
 
51.1 
  

 Construction
  
 
287,002 
  
  
 
3.2 
  
  
 
530,733 
  
  
 
5.8 
  
  
 
768,358 
  
  
 
8.5 
  
  
 
826,310 
  
  
 
10.3 
  
  
 
613,468 
  
  
 
14.7 
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
297,229 
  
  
 
3.3 
  
  
 
319,146 
  
  
 
3.5 
  
  
 
319,463 
  
  
 
3.5 
  
  
 
328,138 
  
  
 
4.1 
  
  
 
265,466 
  
  
 
6.4 
  

 Home equity
  
 
181,158 
  
  
 
2.0 
  
  
 
197,179 
  
  
 
2.2 
  
  
 
220,025 
  
  
 
2.4 
  
  
 
191,934 
  
  
 
2.4 
  
  
 
135,483 
  
  
 
3.2 
  

 Personal
  
 
232,952 
  
  
 
2.6 
  
  
 
296,253 
  
  
 
3.3 
  
  
 
321,611 
  
  
 
3.6 
  
  
 
307,220 
  
  
 
3.9 
  
  
 
247,192 
  
  
 
5.9 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 













 Total
  
 $
  9,008,561 
  
  
 
100.0 
  
  
 $
  9,114,357 
  
  
 
100.0 
  
  
 $
  9,046,625 
  
  
 
100.0 
  
  
 $
  8,001,789 
  
  
 
100.0 
  
  
 $
  4,177,525 
  
  
 
100.0 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Growth vs. prior year–end
  
 
-1.2% 
  
  



  
 
0.7% 
  
  



  
 
13.1% 
  
  



  
 
91.5% 
  
  



  
 
19.4% 
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




  48 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the composition of our commercial loan portfolio at
December 31, 2011 and 2010. Our commercial loan portfolio is categorized based on our most significant industry segments, as classified pursuant to the North American Industrial Classification System standard industry description. These
categories are based on the nature of the client’s ongoing business activity as opposed to the collateral underlying an individual loan. To the extent that a client’s underlying business activity changes, classification differences between
periods will arise.  Table 10  Commercial Loan Portfolio Composition  by Industry Segment
 (Dollars in thousands)   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
    Amount    
 
  
    % of Total    
 
  
    Amount    
 
  
    % of Total    
 

 Manufacturing
  
  $
1,257,973 
  
  
 
23 
  
  
  $
1,042,963 
  
  
 
21 
  

 Healthcare 
  
 
1,218,205 
  
  
 
23 
  
  
 
1,007,610 
  
  
 
21 
  

 Wholesale trade
  
 
482,386 
  
  
 
9 
  
  
 
482,747 
  
  
 
10 
  

 Finance and insurance
  
 
454,830 
  
  
 
8 
  
  
 
449,692 
  
  
 
9 
  

 Real estate and rental and leasing
  
 
416,961 
  
  
 
8 
  
  
 
368,742 
  
  
 
8 
  

 Professional, scientific and technical services
  
 
350,677 
  
  
 
6 
  
  
 
298,382 
  
  
 
6 
  

 Administrative, support, waste management and remediation services
  
 
321,912 
  
  
 
6 
  
  
 
301,735 
  
  
 
6 
  

 Architecture, engineering and construction
  
 
197,761 
  
  
 
4 
  
  
 
230,062 
  
  
 
5 
  

 All other segments (1)
  
 
699,056 
  
  
 
13 
  
  
 
683,235 
  
  
 
14 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial(2)
  
  $
    5,399,761 
  
  
 
100 
  
  
  $
    4,865,168 
  
  
 
100 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 All other segments consist of numerous smaller balances across a variety of industries. 


 
(2)
 Includes
owner-occupied commercial real estate of $1.1 billion and $898,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Within our commercial lending business, we have a specialized niche in the “assisted living,” nursing and residential care segment of the healthcare industry. At December 31, 2011, 23% of
the commercial loan portfolio had been extended primarily to operators in this segment to finance the working capital needs and cost of facilities providing such services. These loans tend to be larger extensions of credit and are primarily to
for-profit businesses. To date, this portfolio segment has experienced minimal defaults and losses.  Commercial real estate
decreased $295.4 million from December 31, 2010 due to a combination of problem loan dispositions, fewer new originations (although we experienced some increased activity during the second half of 2011), and transitional financing being repaid
or refinanced as expected in the secondary market for long-term permanent financing or by other external sources. The collateral underlying our commercial real estate portfolio is principally located in and around our core markets and is
significantly concentrated in the Chicago metropolitan area. Declines of $243.7 million in the construction portfolio from December 31, 2010 are partially due to projects reaching completion at which point they are reclassified into the
commercial real estate category, as well as problem loan dispositions, payoffs or paydowns, and movements to OREO. The following table summarizes our commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios by collateral type at December 31,
2011 and 2010. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Table 11  Commercial Real Estate and Construction Loan Portfolio  by Collateral
Type  (Dollars in thousands)   




























 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Amount
 
 
  % of Total  
 
 
% Non-performing (1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
  % of Total  
 
 
% Non- performing (1) 
 

 Commercial Real Estate
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Land
 
$
230,579 
  
 
 
9 
  
 
 
6 
  
 
$
311,464 
  
 
 
11 
  
 
 
17 
  

 Residential 1-4 family
 
 
105,919 
  
 
 
4 
  
 
 
23 
  
 
 
139,689 
  
 
 
5 
  
 
 
20 
  

 Multi-family
 
 
424,119 
  
 
 
16 
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
457,246 
  
 
 
16 
  
 
 
7 
  

 Industrial/warehouse
 
 
343,071 
  
 
 
13 
  
 
 
3 
  
 
 
391,694 
  
 
 
13 
  
 
 
2 
  

 Office
 
 
568,302 
  
 
 
22 
  
 
 
4 
  
 
 
531,193 
  
 
 
18 
  
 
 
4 
  

 Retail
 
 
431,200 
  
 
 
17 
  
 
 
8 
  
 
 
452,119 
  
 
 
16 
  
 
 
5 
  

 Health care
 
 
140,942 
  
 
 
5 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
114,545 
  
 
 
4 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Mixed use/other
 
 
366,327 
  
 
 
14 
  
 
 
7 
  
 
 
507,928 
  
 
 
17 
  
 
 
9 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total commercial real estate
 
$
  2,610,459 
  
 
 
100 
  
 
 
5 
  
 
$
  2,905,878 
  
 
 
100 
  
 
 
7 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 









 Construction
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Land
 
$
23,422 
  
 
 
8 
  
 
 
2 
  
 
$
46,036 
  
 
 
9 
  
 
 
19 
  

 Residential 1-4 family
 
 
21,906 
  
 
 
8 
  
 
 
14 
  
 
 
30,698 
  
 
 
6 
  
 
 
15 
  

 Multi-family
 
 
64,892 
  
 
 
23 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
77,685 
  
 
 
15 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Industrial/warehouse
 
 
15,216 
  
 
 
5 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
34,703 
  
 
 
7 
  
 
 
5 
  

 Office
 
 
43,403 
  
 
 
15 
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
92,369 
  
 
 
17 
  
 
 
2 
  

 Retail
 
 
61,469 
  
 
 
21 
  
 
 
20 
  
 
 
92,268 
  
 
 
17 
  
 
 
10 
  

 Mixed use/other
 
 
56,694 
  
 
 
20 
  
 
 
10 
  
 
 
156,974 
  
 
 
29 
  
 
 
5 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total construction
 
$
287,002 
  
 
 
100 
  
 
 
8 
  
 
$
530,733 
  
 
 
100 
  
 
 
6 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Calculated as nonperforming loans in the respective collateral type divided by total loans of the corresponding collateral type presented above.
 Of the combined commercial real estate and construction portfolios, the single largest category at
December 31, 2011 was office real estate, which represented 21% of the combined portfolios. Our total exposure to land loans in the combined portfolios declined to $254.0 million at December 31, 2011 from $357.5 million at
December 31, 2010. Our longer-term goal is to reduce land loans as a percentage of the loan portfolio, although further meaningful reduction of our land loan exposure may be challenging in the near term due to the current illiquidity of this
asset class. As a percentage of the total commercial real estate and construction portfolios, land loans declined from 11% at December 31, 2010 to 9% at December 31, 2011. 
  50 


Table of Contents
Maturity and Interest Rate Sensitivity of Loan Portfolio 
The following table summarizes the maturity distribution of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011, by category, as well as the
interest rate sensitivity of loans in these categories that have maturities in excess of one year.  Table 12 
Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans  to Changes in Interest Rates  (Amounts in thousands) 
 




















 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
        Due in       
 1 yearor less
 
  
Due after 1   
 year through    5 years
 
  
      Due after      5 years
 
  
        Total        

 

 Commercial
  
 $
1,360,111  
  
  
 $
3,986,040  
  
  
  $
53,610  
  
  
  $
5,399,761  
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
1,040,846  
  
  
 
1,522,630  
  
  
 
46,983  
  
  
 
2,610,459  
  

 Construction
  
 
182,458  
  
  
 
104,335  
  
  
 
209  
  
  
 
287,002  
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
9,638  
  
  
 
40,775  
  
  
 
246,816  
  
  
 
297,229  
  

 Home equity
  
 
47,486  
  
  
 
102,530  
  
  
 
31,142  
  
  
 
181,158  
  

 Personal
  
 
155,273  
  
  
 
76,061  
  
  
 
1,618  
  
  
 
232,952  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 $
2,795,812  
  
  
 $
5,832,371  
  
  
  $
380,378  
  
  
  $
9,008,561  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 







 Loans maturing after one year:
  



  



  



  




 Predetermined (fixed) interest rates
  



  
 $
597,152  
  
  
  $
53,440  
  
  




 Floating interest rates
  



  
 
5,235,219  
  
  
 
326,938  
  
  





  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  



  
 $
5,832,371  
  
  
  $
380,378  
  
  





  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 Of the $5.6 billion in loans maturing after one year with a floating interest rate, $1.4 billion are
subject to interest rate floors under the loan agreement with $1.2 billion that have such floors in effect at December 31, 2011. On a number of occasions we have eliminated customers’ interest rate floors in consideration of their entering
into interest rate swap transactions with us.  Delinquent Loans, Special Mention and Potential Problem Loans, and Nonperforming Assets
 Loans are reported delinquent if the required principal and interest payments have not been received within 30 days
of the date such payment is due. Delinquency can be driven by either failure of the borrower to make payments within the term of the loan or failure to make the final payment at maturity. The majority of our loans are not fully amortizing over the
term. As a result, a sizeable final repayment is often required at maturity. If a borrower lacks refinancing options or the ability to pay, the loan may become delinquent at maturity. Of total commercial real estate and construction loans
outstanding at December 31, 2011, $274.3 million are scheduled to mature in the first quarter of 2012, of which all but 1% were performing at December 31, 2011.  Loans considered special mention are performing in accordance with the contractual terms but demonstrate potential weakness that if left unresolved, may result in deterioration in the Company’s
credit position and/or the repayment prospects for the credit. Borrowers rated special mention may exhibit adverse operating trends, high leverage, tight liquidity, or other credit concerns. 
Potential problem loans are loans that we have identified as performing in accordance with contractual terms, but for which management
has some level of concern (greater than that of special mention loans) about the ability of the borrowers to meet existing repayment terms in future periods. These loans continue to accrue interest but the ultimate collection of these loans is
questionable due to the same conditions that characterize a special mention credit. These credits may also be considered inadequately protected by the current net worth and/or paying capacity of the obligor or guarantors or the collateral pledged.
These loans generally have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that may jeopardize collection of the debt and are characterized by the distinct possibility that the Company will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not resolved. Although
these loans are generally identified as potential problem loans and require additional attention by management, they may never become nonperforming.  Special mention and potential problem loans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are presented in Table 19.  Nonperforming assets include nonperforming loans and real estate that has been acquired primarily through foreclosure proceedings and are awaiting disposition and are presented in Table 14. Nonperforming
loans consist of nonaccrual loans, including restructured loans that remain on nonaccrual. We specifically exclude certain restructured loans that accrue interest from our definition of nonperforming loans if the borrower has demonstrated the
ability to meet the new terms of the restructuring as evidenced by a 
  51 


Table of Contents

minimum of at least six months of performance in compliance with the restructured terms or if the borrower’s performance prior to the restructuring or other significant events at the time of
the restructuring supports returning or maintaining the loan on accrual status. All loans are placed on nonaccrual status when principal or interest payments become 90 days past due or earlier if management deems the collectability of the principal
or interest to be in question rather than waiting until the loans become 90 days past due. When interest accruals are discontinued, accrued but uncollected interest is reversed reducing interest income. Subsequent receipts on nonaccrual loans are
recorded in the financial statements as a reduction of principal, and interest income is only recorded on a cash basis after principal recovery is reasonably assured. Classification of a loan as nonaccrual does not necessarily preclude the ultimate
collection of loan principal and/or interest. Nonperforming loans are presented in Tables 14, 15, 17, and 19.  Foreclosed
assets represent property acquired as the result of borrower defaults on loans secured by a mortgage on real property. Foreclosed assets are recorded at the lesser of current carrying value or estimated fair value, less estimated selling costs at
the time of foreclosure. Write-downs occurring at foreclosure are charged against the allowance for loan losses. On a periodic basis, the carrying values of these properties are adjusted based upon new appraisals and/or market indications.
Write-downs are recorded for subsequent declines in net realizable value and are included in non-interest expense along with other expenses related to maintaining the properties. Additional information on our OREO is presented in Tables 20 through
22.  As part of our ongoing risk management practices and in certain circumstances, we may extend or modify the terms of a
loan to maximize the collection of amounts due when a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties. The modification may consist of concessionary reduction in interest rate, extension of the maturity date, reduction in the principal balance, or
other action intended to minimize potential losses that would otherwise not be considered in order to improve the chance of a successful recovery on the loan. Such concessions as part of a modification are accounted for as troubled debt
restructurings (“TDRs”). Restructured loans can involve loans remaining on nonaccrual, moving to nonaccrual, or continuing on accrual status, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the borrower. We may utilize a multiple
note structure as a workout alternative for certain loans. The multiple note structure typically bifurcates a troubled loan into two separate notes, where the first note is reasonably assured of repayment and performance according to the modified
terms, and the second note of the troubled loan that is not reasonably assured of repayment is charged-off. TDRs accrue interest as long as the borrower complies with the revised terms and conditions and has historically demonstrated repayment
performance at a level commensurate with the modified terms; otherwise, the restructured loan will be classified as nonaccrual. Restructured loans accruing interest were $100.9 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $87.6 million at
December 31, 2010. Of total restructured loans accruing interest modified during the year ended December 31, 2011, 59% were modified to extend the maturity date and 85% were from commercial loan relationships. The composition of our
restructured loans accruing interest by loan category and our recorded investment is presented in Tables 14 and 18. During 2011, $6.6 million in loans that were previously classified as a restructured loans accruing interest were subsequently
re-underwritten as pass rated credits which is evidence that the borrower would no longer be considered “troubled,” and as such, the TDR classification was removed.  Total nonperforming assets declined 15% to $385.6 million at December 31, 2011 from $454.6 million at December 31, 2010, reflecting strong progress in improving the overall asset quality of the
portfolio and reducing problem assets. Nonperforming assets were 3.11% of total assets at December 31, 2011, compared to 3.65% at December 31, 2010. During the year, total nonperforming loans declined by $106.0 million, or 29%, due to
disposition activity, moderating nonperforming loan inflows, and movement of nonperforming loans to OREO. OREO increased $37.0 million, or 42%, from December 31, 2010, as problem loans continue to progress through the workout process.
 Disposition activity and ongoing workout efforts drove a reduction in special mention and potential problem loans. Loans in
these early stage problem loan categories were down $524.4 million, or 58%, from December 31, 2010 to $382.1 million at December 31, 2011. Disposition activity in 2011 included the sale of $308.9 million in problem loans, including $97.0
million in nonperforming loans, and $79.0 million in OREO at a 15% net incremental charge based on the carrying value net of specific reserves at the time of disposition. In 2012, we will continue to assess the market for the best disposition
strategy and approach. As we work through the remainder of the portfolio, we may see some fluctuations in disposition prices. 
Nonperforming loans were $259.9 million at December 31, 2011, down 29% from $365.9 million at December 31, 2010. The amount of
nonperforming loan inflows, which is primarily composed of potential problem loans moving through the workout process (i.e., moving from potential problem to nonperforming status), were $341.5 million for 2011 compared to $447.4 million for 2010.
Inflows to nonperforming loans were more than offset by problem loan resolutions (including transfers to OREO), dispositions, and charge-offs during 2011. As shown in Table 17 providing nonperforming loan stratification by size, twelve nonperforming
loans in excess of $5.0 million comprised 52% of our total nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011. Commercial real estate and construction loans were 60% of our total nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011, reflecting the stress in the
sector.  As discussed above, our focused asset management activities led to declines in special mention and potential problem
loans year over year as we have worked to improve overall credit quality. Since the majority of inflows to nonperforming loans have been migrating from the special mention or potential problem loan categories, we expect that future nonperforming
loan inflows will likely continue to moderate. However, because many of our potential problem loans are commercial real estate-related, a highly-stressed loan sector, 
  52 


Table of Contents

and because the potential problem loan population contains some larger-sized credits, our total nonperforming loans may fluctuate over the next several quarters as we continue to execute
remediation plans and work through the credit cycle. In addition, credit quality trends may also be impacted by the uncertainty in global economic conditions and market turmoil that could disrupt workout plans, adversely affect clients, or
negatively impact collateral valuations. Further, net nonperforming asset levels could fluctuate depending on the timing of dispositions or other remediation actions. Our efforts to continue to dispose of nonperforming and problem assets in future
quarters may be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the pace and timing of the overall recovery of the economy, activity levels in the real estate market, real estate inventory coming into the market for sale and
collateral asset class. OREO is likely to remain elevated as nonperforming commercial real estate loans continue to move through the collection process.  The following table breaks down our loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 between performing, delinquent and nonperforming status. 
Table 13 
Delinquency Analysis  (Dollars in thousands)   




























 
 
 
 
 
Delinquent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    Current    
 
 
30 – 59Days  Past Due  
 
 
60 – 89Days    Past Due    
 
 
90 DaysPast Due  and Accruing  
 
 
  Nonaccrual  
 
 
    Total Loans    
 

 As of December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Loan Balances:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 $
    5,326,862  
  
 
 $
6,018  
  
 
 $
923  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
65,958  
  
 
 $
5,399,761  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
2,463,902  
  
 
 
3,523  
  
 
 
9,777  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
133,257  
  
 
 
2,610,459  
  

 Construction
 
 
262,742  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2,381  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
21,879  
  
 
 
287,002  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
278,195  
  
 
 
3,800  
  
 
 
645  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
14,589  
  
 
 
297,229  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
388,686  
  
 
 
446  
  
 
 
809  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
24,169  
  
 
 
414,110  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 $
8,720,387  
  
 
 $
13,787  
  
 
 $
14,535  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
259,852  
  
 
 $
9,008,561  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 % of Loan Balance:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
98.65%  
  
 
 
0.11%  
  
 
 
0.02%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
1.22%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
94.40%  
  
 
 
0.13%  
  
 
 
0.37%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
5.10%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  

 Construction
 
 
91.55%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
0.83%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
7.62%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
93.59%  
  
 
 
1.28%  
  
 
 
0.22%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
4.91%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
93.85%  
  
 
 
0.11%  
  
 
 
0.20%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
5.84%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 
96.81%  
  
 
 
0.15%  
  
 
 
0.16%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
2.88%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 As of December 31, 2010
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Loan Balances:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 $
4,793,144  
  
 
 $
1,024  
  
 
 $
759  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
70,241  
  
 
 $
4,865,168  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
2,668,639  
  
 
 
10,264  
  
 
 
12,346  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
214,629  
  
 
 
2,905,878  
  

 Construction
 
 
495,435  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1,895  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
33,403  
  
 
 
530,733  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
300,027  
  
 
 
180  
  
 
 
4,098  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
14,841  
  
 
 
319,146  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
442,535  
  
 
 
14,098  
  
 
 
4,033  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
32,766  
  
 
 
493,432  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 $
8,699,780  
  
 
 $
25,566  
  
 
 $
23,131  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
365,880  
  
 
 $
9,114,357  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 % of Loan Balance:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
98.52%  
  
 
 
0.02%  
  
 
 
0.02%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
1.44%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
91.83%  
  
 
 
0.35%  
  
 
 
0.43%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
7.39%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  

 Construction
 
 
93.35%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
0.36%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
6.29%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
94.01%  
  
 
 
0.06%  
  
 
 
1.28%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
4.65%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
89.68%  
  
 
 
2.86%  
  
 
 
0.82%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
6.64%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 
95.46%  
  
 
 
0.28%  
  
 
 
0.25%  
  
 
 
-%  
  
 
 
4.01%  
  
 
 
100.00%  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  53 


Table of Contents
The following table provides a comparison of our nonperforming assets, restructured loans
accruing interest, and past due loans for the past five years.  Table 14 
Nonperforming Assets, Restructured and Past Due Loans  (Dollars in thousands)   
























 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
      2011      
 
  
      2010      
 
  
      2009      
 
  
      2008      
 
  
      2007      
 

 Nonaccrual loans:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  
 $
65,958  
  
  
 $
70,241  
  
  
 $
69,346  
  
  
 $
11,735  
  
  
 $
8,886  
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
133,257  
  
  
 
214,629  
  
  
 
171,049  
  
  
 
48,143  
  
  
 
13,371  
  

 Construction
  
 
21,879  
  
  
 
33,403  
  
  
 
113,822  
  
  
 
63,305  
  
  
 
13,406  
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
14,589  
  
  
 
14,841  
  
  
 
14,481  
  
  
 
6,829  
  
  
 
898  
  

 Personal and home equity
  
 
24,169  
  
  
 
32,766  
  
  
 
26,749  
  
  
 
1,907  
  
  
 
2,422  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total nonaccrual loans
  
 $
259,852  
  
  
 $
365,880  
  
  
 $
395,447  
  
  
 $
131,919  
  
  
 $
38,983  
  

 90 days past due loans (still accruing interest)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
53  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total nonperforming loans
  
 $
259,852  
  
  
 $
365,880  
  
  
 $
395,447  
  
  
 $
131,919  
  
  
 $
39,036  
  

 OREO
  
 
125,729  
  
  
 
88,728  
  
  
 
41,497  
  
  
 
23,823  
  
  
 
9,265  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total nonperforming assets
  
 $
385,581  
  
  
 $
454,608  
  
  
 $
436,944  
  
  
 $
155,742  
  
  
 $
48,301  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Restructured loans accruing interest:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  
 $
47,768  
  
  
 $
8,017  
  
  
 $
-  
  
  
 $
-  
  
  
 $
-  
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
36,149  
  
  
 
60,019  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  

 Construction
  
 
-  
  
  
 
4,348  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
3,238  
  
  
 
798  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  

 Personal and home equity
  
 
13,754  
  
  
 
14,394  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total restructured loans accruing interest
  
 $
100,909  
  
  
 $
87,576  
  
  
 $
-  
  
  
 $
-  
  
  
 $
-  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 30-89 days past due loans
  
 $
28,322  
  
  
 $
48,697  
  
  
 $
102,661  
  
  
 $
35,404  
  
  
 $
102,598  
  

 Nonperforming loans to total loans (excluding covered assets)
  
 
2.88%  
  
  
 
4.01%  
  
  
 
4.37%  
  
  
 
1.65%  
  
  
 
0.93%  
  

 Nonperforming loans to total assets
  
 
2.09%  
  
  
 
2.94%  
  
  
 
3.29%  
  
  
 
1.32%  
  
  
 
0.78%  
  

 Nonperforming assets to total assets
  
 
3.11%  
  
  
 
3.65%  
  
  
 
3.63%  
  
  
 
1.56%  
  
  
 
0.97%  
  

 Allowance for loan losses as a percent of nonperforming loans
  
 
74%  
  
  
 
61%  
  
  
 
56%  
  
  
 
85%  
  
  
 
125%  
  

  54 


Table of Contents
The following two tables present changes in our nonperforming loans and loans classified as
restructured loans accruing interest portfolios for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Table 15
 Nonperforming Loans Rollforward  (Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
  $
365,880 
  
  
  $
395,447 
  

 Additions:
  



  




 New nonaccrual loans (1)
  
 
341,523 
  
  
 
447,402 
  

 Reductions:
  



  




 Return to performing status
  
 
(17,520)
  
  
 
(42,900)
  

 Paydowns and payoffs, net of advances
  
 
(46,675)
  
  
 
(76,501)
  

 Net sales
  
 
(97,027)
  
  
 
(21,838)
  

 Transfer to OREO
  
 
    (131,390)
  
  
 
    (140,250)
  

 Charge-offs, net
  
 
(154,939)
  
  
 
(195,480)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total reductions
  
 
(447,551)
  
  
 
(476,969)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
  $
259,852 
  
  
  $
365,880 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 (1) Amounts represent loan balances as of the end of the quarter in which loans were classified as new nonaccrual loans.
 Table 16  Restructured Loans Accruing Interest Rollforward  (Amounts in thousands)
  












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
  $
87,576 
  
  
  $
- 
  

 Additions:
  



  




 New restructured loans accruing interest (1)
  
 
91,386 
  
  
 
98,826 
  

 Restructured loans returned to accruing status
  
 
2,128 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Reductions:
  



  




 Paydowns and payoffs, net of advances
  
 
      (33,329)
  
  
 
1,187 
  

 Transferred to nonperforming loans
  
 
(24,855)
  
  
 
      (12,437)
  

 Net sales
  
 
(11,860)
  
  
 
- 
  

 Removal of restructured loan status (2)
  
 
(6,594)
  
  
 
- 
  

 Charge-offs, net
  
 
(3,543)
  
  
 
- 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
  $
100,909 
  
  
  $
87,576 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1)
 Amounts
represent loan balances as of the end of the quarter in which loans were classified as new restructured loans accruing interest. 


 
(2)
 Loans were
previously classified as an accruing TDR and subsequently re-underwritten as pass rated credits. Per our TDR policy, the TDR classification is removed. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations – Credit Quality Management and Allowance for Loan Losses” for information regarding TDRs. 
  55 


Table of Contents
The following table presents the stratification of our nonperforming loans as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Table 17  Nonperforming Loans Stratification  (Dollars in thousands) 
 





$259,85200



$259,85200



$259,85200



$259,85200



$259,85200



$259,85200


 
 
Stratification
 

As of December 31, 2011
 
$10.0 Millionor More
 
 
$5.0 Million to$9.9
Million
 
  
$3.0 Million to$4.9
Million
 
 
$1.5 Million to$2.9
Million
 
 
Under $1.5Million
 
 
Total
 









 Amount:
 



 



  



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
$
30,226  
  
 
$
16,820  
  
  
$
3,448  
  
 
$
3,434  
  
 
$
12,030  
  
 
$
65,958  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
56,969  
  
 
 
10,257  
  
  
 
15,740  
  
 
 
21,549  
  
 
 
28,742  
  
 
 
133,257  
  

 Construction
 
 
12,490  
  
 
 
-  
  
  
 
4,760  
  
 
 
1,547  
  
 
 
3,082  
  
 
 
21,879  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
  
 
4,789  
  
 
 
2,473  
  
 
 
7,327  
  
 
 
14,589  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
-  
  
 
 
7,108  
  
  
 
-  
  
 
 
3,795  
  
 
 
13,266  
  
 
 
24,169  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total nonperforming loans
 
$
99,685  
  
 
$
34,185  
  
  
$
28,737  
  
 
$
32,798  
  
 
$
64,447  
  
 
$
259,852  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 









 Number of Borrowers:
 



 



  



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
2  
  
 
 
2  
  
  
 
1  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
39  
  
 
 
46  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
4  
  
 
 
2  
  
  
 
4  
  
 
 
10  
  
 
 
56  
  
 
 
76  
  

 Construction
 
 
1  
  
 
 
-  
  
  
 
1  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
5  
  
 
 
8  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
  
 
1  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
19  
  
 
 
21  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1  
  
  
 
-  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
37  
  
 
 
40  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
7  
  
 
 
5  
  
  
 
7  
  
 
 
16  
  
 
 
156  
  
 
 
191  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 As of December 31, 2010
 



 












 Amount:
 



 



  



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
$
32,344  
  
 
$
6,051  
  
  
$
8,420  
  
 
$
7,861  
  
 
$
15,565  
  
 
$
70,241  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
11,905  
  
 
 
61,718  
  
  
 
52,856  
  
 
 
33,912  
  
 
 
54,238  
  
 
 
214,629  
  

 Construction
 
 
-  
  
 
 
11,733  
  
  
 
4,434  
  
 
 
8,383  
  
 
 
8,853  
  
 
 
33,403  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
  
 
4,790  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
10,051  
  
 
 
14,841  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
15,491  
  
 
 
-  
  
  
 
4,419  
  
 
 
1,932  
  
 
 
10,924  
  
 
 
32,766  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total nonperforming loans
 
$
59,740  
  
 
$
79,502  
  
  
$
74,919  
  
 
$
52,088  
  
 
$
99,631  
  
 
$
365,880  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 









 Number of Borrowers:
 



 



  



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
2  
  
 
 
1  
  
  
 
2  
  
 
 
3  
  
 
 
50  
  
 
 
58  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
1  
  
 
 
9  
  
  
 
13  
  
 
 
16  
  
 
 
92  
  
 
 
131  
  

 Construction
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2  
  
  
 
1  
  
 
 
4  
  
 
 
14  
  
 
 
21  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
  
 
1  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
17  
  
 
 
18  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
1  
  
 
 
-  
  
  
 
1  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
28  
  
 
 
31  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
4  
  
 
 
12  
  
  
 
18  
  
 
 
24  
  
 
 
201  
  
 
 
259  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  56 


Table of Contents
The following table presents the stratification of our restructured loans accruing interest
as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Table 18  Restructured Loans Accruing Interest Stratification  (Dollars in thousands)
  





$100,909 00



$100,909 00



$100,909 00



$100,909 00



$100,909 00



$100,909 00


 
 
Stratification
 

As of December 31, 2011
 
$10.0 Millionor More
 
 
$5.0 Million to$9.9 Million
 
 
$3.0 Million to$4.9 Million
 
 
$1.5 Million to$2.9 Million
 
 
Under $1.5Million
 
 
Total
 









 Amount:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
$
15,279  
  
 
$
24,264  
  
 
$
4,331  
  
 
$
-  
  
 
$
3,894  
  
 
$
47,768  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
21,273  
  
 
 
5,165  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
4,944  
  
 
 
4,767  
  
 
 
36,149  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2,213  
  
 
 
1,025  
  
 
 
3,238  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
12,691  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1,063  
  
 
 
13,754  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total restructured loans accruing interest
 
$
49,243  
  
 
$
29,429  
  
 
$
4,331  
  
 
$
7,157  
  
 
$
10,749  
  
 
$
100,909  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 









 Number of Borrowers:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
1  
  
 
 
4  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
10  
  
 
 
16  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
1  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
10  
  
 
 
14  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
3  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
1  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
3  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
3  
  
 
 
5  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
3  
  
 
 
24  
  
 
 
36  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 As of December 31, 2010
 



 



 



 



 



 












 Amount:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
$
-  
  
 
$
-  
  
 
$
-  
  
 
$
4,553  
  
 
$
3,464  
  
 
$
8,017  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
36,409  
  
 
 
5,250  
  
 
 
7,064  
  
 
 
4,662  
  
 
 
6,634  
  
 
 
60,019  
  

 Construction
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
3,112  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1,236  
  
 
 
4,348  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
798  
  
 
 
798  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
13,114  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1,280  
  
 
 
14,394  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total restructured loans accruing interest
 
$
49,523  
  
 
$
5,250  
  
 
$
10,176  
  
 
$
9,215  
  
 
$
13,412  
  
 
$
87,576  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 









 Number of Borrowers:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
7  
  
 
 
9  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
2  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
9  
  
 
 
16  
  

 Construction
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
2  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
1  
  

 Personal and home equity
 
 
1  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
2  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
3  
  
 
 
1  
  
 
 
3  
  
 
 
4  
  
 
 
19  
  
 
 
30  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  57 


Table of Contents
The following table presents the credit quality of our loan portfolio as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, segmented by our transformational and legacy portfolios. We have reduced the level of problem loans in every category, with an overall reduction of 50% from December 31, 2010. Legacy loans, which represent
approximately 23% of our total loan portfolio and 56% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011, decreased by $927.0 million from December 31, 2010.  Table 19  Credit Quality 
(Dollars in thousands)   






































 
  
SpecialMention
 
  
% ofPortfolioLoanType
 
 
  
  
PotentialProblemLoans
 
  
% ofPortfolioLoanType
 
 
  
  
Non-PerformingLoans
 
  
% ofPortfolioLoanType
 
 
  
  
TotalLoans
 

 As of December 31, 2011
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  




 Transformational
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  




 Commercial
  
 $
41,995 
  
  
 
0.8 
  
 
 
  
 $
66,279 
  
  
 
1.3 
  
 
 
  
 $
49,220 
  
  
 
1.0 
  
 
 
  
  $
4,951,935 
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
59,031 
  
  
 
3.9 
  
 
 
  
 
1,769 
  
  
 
0.1 
  
 
 
  
 
49,031 
  
  
 
3.3 
  
 
 
  
 
1,497,661 
  

 Construction
  
 
7,272 
  
  
 
3.6 
  
 
 
  
 
9,283 
  
  
 
4.6 
  
 
 
  
 
12,489 
  
  
 
6.2 
  
 
 
  
 
201,879 
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
4,490 
  
  
 
3.5 
  
 
 
  
 
5,450 
  
  
 
4.2 
  
 
 
  
 
2,844 
  
  
 
2.2 
  
 
 
  
 
129,161 
  

 Home equity
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
381 
  
  
 
0.7 
  
 
 
  
 
78 
  
  
 
0.1 
  
 
 
  
 
54,530 
  

 Personal
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
866 
  
  
 
0.6 
  
 
 
  
 
330 
  
  
 
0.2 
  
 
 
  
 
139,643 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 Total transformational
  
 $
112,788 
  
  
 
1.6 
  
 
 
  
 $
84,028 
  
  
 
1.2 
  
 
 
  
 $
113,992 
  
  
 
1.6 
  
 
 
  
  $
6,964,809 
  

 Legacy
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  




 Commercial
  
 $
12,331 
  
  
 
2.7 
  
 
 
  
 $
13,049 
  
  
 
2.9 
  
 
 
  
 $
16,738 
  
  
 
3.7 
  
 
 
  
  $
457,826 
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
73,884 
  
  
 
6.6 
  
 
 
  
 
60,424 
  
  
 
5.4 
  
 
 
  
 
84,226 
  
  
 
7.6 
  
 
 
  
 
1,112,798 
  

 Construction
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
9,390 
  
  
 
11.0 
  
 
 
  
 
85,123 
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
4,854 
  
  
 
2.9 
  
 
 
  
 
12,481 
  
  
 
7.4 
  
 
 
  
 
11,745 
  
  
 
7.0 
  
 
 
  
 
168,068 
  

 Home equity
  
 
758 
  
  
 
0.6 
  
 
 
  
 
6,003 
  
  
 
4.7 
  
 
 
  
 
11,525 
  
  
 
9.1 
  
 
 
  
 
126,628 
  

 Personal
  
 
350 
  
  
 
0.4 
  
 
 
  
 
1,110 
  
  
 
1.2 
  
 
 
  
 
12,236 
  
  
 
13.1 
  
 
 
  
 
93,309 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 Total legacy
  
 $
92,177 
  
  
 
4.5 
  
 
 
  
 $
93,067 
  
  
 
4.6 
  
 
 
  
 $
145,860 
  
  
 
7.1 
  
 
 
  
  $
2,043,752 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 $
204,965 
  
  
 
2.3 
  
 
 
  
 $
177,095 
  
  
 
2.0 
  
 
 
  
 $
259,852 
  
  
 
2.9 
  
 
 
  
  $
9,008,561 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

   As of December 31,
2010
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  




 Transformational
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  




 Commercial
  
 $
85,039 
  
  
 
2.0 
  
 
 
  
 $
121,816 
  
  
 
2.9 
  
 
 
  
 $
39,192 
  
  
 
0.9 
  
 
 
  
  $
4,246,469 
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
87,495 
  
  
 
6.6 
  
 
 
  
 
125,497 
  
  
 
9.4 
  
 
 
  
 
22,214 
  
  
 
1.7 
  
 
 
  
 
1,329,378 
  

 Construction
  
 
37,590 
  
  
 
11.7 
  
 
 
  
 
21,774 
  
  
 
6.8 
  
 
 
  
 
105 
  
  
 
* 
  
 
 
  
 
320,151 
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
1,214 
  
  
 
1.4 
  
 
 
  
 
5,888 
  
  
 
6.8 
  
 
 
  
 
35 
  
  
 
* 
  
 
 
  
 
86,473 
  

 Home equity
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
346 
  
  
 
1.2 
  
 
 
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
28,356 
  

 Personal
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
1,280 
  
  
 
1.0 
  
 
 
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
132,813 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 Total transformational
  
 $
211,338 
  
  
 
3.4 
  
 
 
  
 $
276,601 
  
  
 
4.5 
  
 
 
  
 $
61,546 
  
  
 
1.0 
  
 
 
  
  $
6,143,640 
  

 Legacy
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  




 Commercial
  
 $
26,891 
  
  
 
4.3 
  
 
 
  
 $
52,013 
  
  
 
8.4 
  
 
 
  
 $
31,049 
  
  
 
5.0 
  
 
 
  
  $
618,699 
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
115,577 
  
  
 
7.3 
  
 
 
  
 
134,545 
  
  
 
8.5 
  
 
 
  
 
192,415 
  
  
 
12.2 
  
 
 
  
 
1,576,500 
  

 Construction
  
 
30,325 
  
  
 
14.4 
  
 
 
  
 
23,345 
  
  
 
11.1 
  
 
 
  
 
33,298 
  
  
 
15.8 
  
 
 
  
 
210,582 
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
8,748 
  
  
 
3.8 
  
 
 
  
 
9,213 
  
  
 
4.0 
  
 
 
  
 
14,806 
  
  
 
6.4 
  
 
 
  
 
232,673 
  

 Home equity
  
 
3,757 
  
  
 
2.2 
  
 
 
  
 
10,926 
  
  
 
6.5 
  
 
 
  
 
8,195 
  
  
 
4.9 
  
 
 
  
 
168,823 
  

 Personal
  
 
2,198 
  
  
 
1.3 
  
 
 
  
 
947 
  
  
 
0.6 
  
 
 
  
 
24,571 
  
  
 
15.0 
  
 
 
  
 
163,440 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 Total legacy
  
 $
187,496 
  
  
 
6.3 
  
 
 
  
 $
230,989 
  
  
 
7.8 
  
 
 
  
 $
304,334 
  
  
 
10.2 
  
 
 
  
  $
2,970,717 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 $
    398,834 
  
  
 
        4.4 
  
 
 
  
 $
    507,590 
  
  
 
        5.6 
  
 
 
  
 $
    365,880 
  
  
 
        4.0 
  
 
 
  
  $
    9,114,357 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
*
Less than 0.1% 
  58 


Table of Contents
Foreclosed real estate 
OREO totaled $125.7 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $88.7 million at December 31, 2010, and is comprised of 400
properties. The increase in OREO properties from year end 2010 reflects our efforts to move problem loans through the credit management collection process by means of foreclosure or other resolution strategy to gain control of the real estate
collateral for ultimate sale. Given current economic conditions and the difficult real estate market, the time required to sell these properties in an orderly fashion has increased, and OREO is likely to remain elevated as nonperforming commercial
real estate loans continue to move through the collection process. OREO is recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan at the time of acquisition or the fair value, determined on the basis of current appraisals, comparable sales,
and other estimates of value obtained principally from independent sources, adjusted for estimated selling costs. Updated appraisals on OREO are typically obtained every twelve months and evaluated internally at least every six months. Table 20
presents a rollforward of OREO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 21 presents the composition of OREO properties at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and Table 22 presents OREO property by geographic location at
December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Table 20  OREO Rollforward  (Amounts in thousands) 
 












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Beginning balance
  
 $
88,728 
  
  
 $
41,497 
  

 New foreclosed properties
  
 
131,396 
  
  
 
140,980 
  

 Valuation adjustments
  
 
(15,419)
  
  
 
(6,588)
  

 Disposals:
  



  




 Sale proceeds
  
 
(69,898)
  
  
 
(85,809)
  

 Net loss on sale
  
 
(9,078)
  
  
 
(1,352)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
 $
          125,729 
  
  
 $
            88,728 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Table 21  OREO Properties by Type  (Dollars in thousands) 
 




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Numberof Properties
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Numberof Properties
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 Single-family homes
  
 
71 
  
  
 $
26,866 
  
  
 
21 
  
  
 
24 
  
  
 $
21,534 
  
  
 
24 
  

 Land parcels
  
 
262 
  
  
 
51,465 
  
  
 
41 
  
  
 
320 
  
  
 
34,122 
  
  
 
38 
  

 Multi-family
  
 
14 
  
  
 
3,327 
  
  
 
3 
  
  
 
14 
  
  
 
6,061 
  
  
 
7 
  

 Office/industrial
  
 
44 
  
  
 
37,019 
  
  
 
29 
  
  
 
20 
  
  
 
26,511 
  
  
 
30 
  

 Retail
  
 
9 
  
  
 
7,052 
  
  
 
6 
  
  
 
1 
  
  
 
500 
  
  
 
1 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total OREO properties
  
 
            400 
  
  
 $
    125,729 
  
  
 
        100 
  
  
 
            379 
  
  
 $
    88,728 
  
  
 
      100 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  59 


Table of Contents
Table 22  OREO Property Type by Location  (Dollars in thousands) 
 
































 
  
Illinois
 
  
Georgia
 
  
Michigan
 
  
SouthEastern (1)
 
  
MidWestern (2)
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 As of December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Single-family homes
  
 $
23,277 
  
  
 $
385 
  
  
 $
1,718 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
608 
  
  
 $
878 
  
  
 $
26,866 
  

 Land parcels
  
 
29,370 
  
  
 
2,898 
  
  
 
3,171 
  
  
 
9,568 
  
  
 
6,458 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
51,465 
  

 Multi-family
  
 
3,327 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
3,327 
  

 Office/industrial
  
 
18,430 
  
  
 
1,656 
  
  
 
548 
  
  
 
3,762 
  
  
 
9,228 
  
  
 
3,395 
  
  
 
37,019 
  

 Retail
  
 
4,501 
  
  
 
1,615 
  
  
 
936 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
7,052 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total OREO properties
  
 $
    78,905 
  
  
 $
    6,554 
  
  
 $
     6,373 
  
  
 $
     13,330 
  
  
 $
    16,294 
  
  
 $
     4,273 
  
  
 $
    125,729 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 % of Total
  
 
63%
  
  
 
5%
  
  
 
5%
  
  
 
11%
  
  
 
13%
  
  
 
3%
  
  
 
100%
  










 As of December 31, 2010
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Single-family homes
  
 $
14,943 
  
  
 $
139 
  
  
 $
6,194 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
258 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
21,534 
  

 Land parcels
  
 
10,874 
  
  
 
4,772 
  
  
 
3,626 
  
  
 
10,396 
  
  
 
4,454 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
34,122 
  

 Multi-family
  
 
5,166 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
895 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
6,061 
  

 Office/industrial
  
 
13,505 
  
  
 
1,104 
  
  
 
3,787 
  
  
 
4,573 
  
  
 
3,542 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
26,511 
  

 Retail
  
 
500 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
500 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total OREO properties
  
 $
44,988 
  
  
 $
6,015 
  
  
 $
14,502 
  
  
 $
14,969 
  
  
 $
8,254 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
88,728 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 % of Total
  
 
51%
  
  
 
7%
  
  
 
16%
  
  
 
17%
  
  
 
9%
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
100%
  
  


 
(1) 
 Represents the southeastern states of Arkansas and Florida. 


 
(2) 
 Represents the Midwestern states of Kansas, Missouri, Wisconsin, Indiana and Ohio. 
At December 31, 2011, OREO land parcels, currently an illiquid asset class, consisted of 262 properties and represented the largest
portion of OREO at 41% of the total OREO carrying value with a total value of $51.5 million. Office/industrial properties represented 29% of the total OREO carrying value and consisted of 44 properties. Single-family homes represented 21% of the
total OREO carrying value and consisted of 71 properties.  Credit Quality Management and Allowance for Loan Losses 
We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in the loan
portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is assessed quarterly and represents an accounting estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date based on a review of available and relevant information at that time. The allowance
is not a prediction of our actual credit losses going forward based on current and available information. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships that are
considered to be impaired (the “specific component” of the allowance), as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are not specifically identified (the “general allocated component” of the allowance), which is
determined using a methodology that is a function of quantitative and qualitative factors and management judgment applied to defined segments of our loan portfolio.  The specific component of the allowance relates to impaired loans. Impaired loans consist of nonaccrual loans (which include nonaccrual TDRs) and loans classified as accruing TDRs. A loan is considered
nonaccrual when, based on current information and events, management believes that it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due (both principal and interest) according to the original contractual terms of the loan agreement. All
loans that are over 90 days past due in principal or interest are by definition considered “impaired” and placed on nonaccrual status. Management may also place some loans on nonaccrual status before they are 90 days past due if they meet
the above definition of “impaired.” Once a loan is determined to be impaired, the amount of impairment is measured based on the loan’s observable fair value, the fair value of the underlying collateral less selling costs if the loan
is collateral-dependent, or the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate. Impaired loans exceeding $500,000 are evaluated individually while smaller loans are evaluated as pools using
historical loss experience as well as management’s loss expectations for the respective asset class and product type. If the estimated fair value of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan (including accrued interest,
net of deferred loan fees and costs and unamortized premium or discount), impairment is recognized by creating a specific reserve as a component of the allowance for loan losses. The recognition of any reserve required on new impaired loans is
recorded in the same quarter in which the transfer of the loan to nonaccrual status occurred. All impaired loans are reviewed quarterly for any changes that would affect the specific reserve. Any impaired loan in which a determination has been made
that the economic value is permanently reduced is charged-off against the allowance for loan losses to reflect its current economic value in the period in which the determination has been made. 
  60 


Table of Contents
When collateral-dependent real estate loans are determined to be impaired, updated
appraisals are typically obtained every twelve months and evaluated internally at least every six months. In addition, both borrower and market-specific factors are taken into consideration, which may result in obtaining more frequent appraisal
updates or internal assessments. Appraisals are conducted by third-party independent appraisers under internal direction and engagement. Any appraisal with a value in excess of $250,000 is subject to a compliance review. Appraisals received with a
value in excess of $1.0 million are subject to a technical review. Appraisals are either reviewed internally or sent to an outside technical firm if appropriate. Both levels of review involve a scope appropriate for the complexity and risk
associated with the loan and its collateral. We consider other factors or recent developments which could adjust the valuations indicated in the appraisals or internal reviews. As of December 31, 2011, the average appraisal age used in the
impaired loan valuation process was approximately 200 days. The amount of impaired assets which, by policy, requires an independent appraisal, but does not have a current external appraisal at year end due to the timing of the receipt of the
appraisal is not material to the overall reserve. In situations such as this, we establish a probable impairment reserve for the account based on our experience in the related asset class and type. 
The general allocated component of the allowance is determined using a methodology that is a function of quantitative and
qualitative factors applied to segments of our loan portfolio. The methodology takes into account at a product level the originating line of business and vintage (transformational or legacy), the origination year, the risk rating migration of the
note, and historical default and loss history of similar products. Using this information, the methodology produces a range of possible reserve amounts by product type. We consider the appropriate balance of the general allocated component of the
reserve within these ranges based on a variety of internal and external quantitative and qualitative factors to reflect data or timeframes not captured by the model as well as market and economic data and management judgment. In certain instances,
these additional factors and judgments may lead to management’s conclusion that the appropriate level of the reserve is outside the range determined through the framework. In our evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance at December 31,
2011, we considered a number of factors for each product that included, but were not limited to, the following: for the commercial portfolio, the pace of growth in the commercial loan sector, the existence of larger individual credits and
specialized industry concentrations, and general macroeconomic indicators such as GDP employment trends, and manufacturing activity, which overall show some signs of improvement in recent months, but still are susceptible to sustainability risk and
possible negative ramifications from the European debt crisis; for the commercial real estate portfolio, the potential impact of general commercial real estate trends, particularly occupancy and leasing rate trends, charge-off severity and
collateral value changes; for the construction portfolio, construction employment, industry experience on construction loan losses, and construction spending rates, and for the residential, home equity, and personal portfolios, home price indices
and sales volume, vacancy rates, delinquency rates and general economic conditions and interest rate trends which impact these products. The Bank has limited exposure with a related junior collateral position in any product type with the exception
of Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs). This product is by definition usually secured in the junior position to the first mortgage on the related property. The Bank evaluates the allowance for loan losses for HELOCs as one of our six primary,
segregated product types. Default rates on our HELOC portfolio have historically been below industry averages and our allowance reflects the performance and loss history unique to our portfolio.
The establishment of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of judgment and includes an inherent level of imprecision given
the difficulty of identifying all the factors impacting loan repayment and the timing of when losses actually occur. While management utilizes its best judgment and information available, the ultimate adequacy of the allowance is dependent upon a
variety of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, client performance, the economy, changes in interest rates and property values, and the interpretation by regulatory authorities of loan classifications. 
Although we determine the amount of each element of the allowance separately and consider this process to be an important credit
management tool, the entire allowance for loan losses is available for the entire loan portfolio.  Management evaluates the
adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and reviews the allowance for loan losses and the underlying methodology with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors quarterly. As of December 31, 2011, management concluded the allowance for
loan losses was adequate (i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio at that date, including those not yet identifiable).  As an integral part of their examination process, various federal and state regulatory agencies also review the allowance for loan losses. These agencies may require that certain loan balances be
classified differently or charged off when their credit evaluations differ from those of management, based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination. 
The accounting policies underlying the establishment and maintenance of the allowance for loan losses through provisions charged to
operating expense are discussed in Note 1 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
  61 


Table of Contents
The following table presents changes in the allowance for loan losses, excluding covered
assets, for the past five years.  Table 23  Allowance for Loan Losses and  Summary of Loan Loss Experience
 (Dollars in thousands)   
























 
 
Years ended December 31,
 

 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Change in allowance for loan losses:
 



 



 



 



 




 Balance at beginning of year
 
$
222,821 
  
 
$
221,688 
  
 
$
112,672 
  
 
$
48,891 
  
 
$
38,069 
  

 Loans charged-off:
 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
(32,742)
  
 
 
(32,160)
  
 
 
(31,745)
  
 
 
(14,926)
  
 
 
(2,668)
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
(108,814)
  
 
 
(100,467)
  
 
 
(27,565)
  
 
 
(49,905)
  
 
 
(1,918)
  

 Construction
 
 
(11,282)
  
 
 
(27,499)
  
 
 
(23,471)
  
 
 
(54,438)
  
 
 
(1,347)
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
(2,009)
  
 
 
(4,735)
  
 
 
(1,495)
  
 
 
(3,022)
  
 
 
-
  

 Home equity
 
 
(6,586)
  
 
 
(3,708)
  
 
 
(1,186)
  
 
 
(2,199)
  
 
 
-
  

 Personal
 
 
(9,594)
  
 
 
(28,471)
  
 
 
(15,798)
  
 
 
(2,196)
  
 
 
(383)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total charge-offs
 
 
(171,027)
  
 
 
(197,040)
  
 
 
(101,260)
  
 
 
(126,686)
  
 
 
(6,316)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Recoveries on loans previously charged-off:
 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
4,280 
  
 
 
2,967 
  
 
 
3,988 
  
 
 
239 
  
 
 
168 
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
3,162 
  
 
 
1,328 
  
 
 
1,759 
  
 
 
74 
  
 
 
1 
  

 Construction
 
 
291 
  
 
 
983 
  
 
 
5,057 
  
 
 
482 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
61 
  
 
 
33 
  
 
 
152 
  
 
 
47 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Home equity
 
 
337 
  
 
 
95 
  
 
 
73 
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Personal
 
 
1,114 
  
 
 
743 
  
 
 
381 
  
 
 
45 
  
 
 
35 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recoveries
 
 
9,245 
  
 
 
6,149 
  
 
 
11,410 
  
 
 
888 
  
 
 
204 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs
 
 
(161,782)
  
 
 
(190,891)
  
 
 
(89,850)
  
 
 
(125,798)
  
 
 
(6,112)
  

 Provisions charged to operating expense
 
 
130,555 
  
 
 
192,024 
  
 
 
198,866 
  
 
 
189,579 
  
 
 
16,934 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
 
$
191,594 
  
 
$
222,821 
  
 
$
221,688 
  
 
$
112,672 
  
 
$
48,891 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 Total loans, excluding covered assets, at year end
 
$
  9,008,561 
  
 
$
  9,114,357 
  
 
$
  9,046,625 
  
 
$
  8,001,789 
  
 
$
  4,177,525 
  

 Allowance as a percent of loans at year end
 
 
2.13% 
  
 
 
2.44% 
  
 
 
2.45% 
  
 
 
1.41% 
  
 
 
1.17% 
  

 Average loans, excluding covered assets
 
$
8,915,750 
  
 
$
8,980,368 
  
 
$
8,806,217 
  
 
$
6,283,662 
  
 
$
3,678,818 
  

 Ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding for the year
 
 
1.81% 
  
 
 
2.13% 
  
 
 
1.02% 
  
 
 
2.00% 
  
 
 
0.17% 
  
 Our allowance for loan losses declined $31.2 million from $222.8 million at December 31, 2010 to
$191.6 million at December 31, 2011. The decrease in the allowance is primarily the result of an improved credit risk profile for the performing portfolio as reflected in the reduced levels of special mention and potential problem loans and
improving loan portfolio mix due to the reshaping activities previously discussed. The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to total loans (excluding covered assets) was 2.13% at December 31, 2011, down from 2.44% as of December 31,
2010. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of nonperforming loans was 74% compared to the December 31, 2010 level of 61%. The provision for loan losses was $130.6 million for 2011, compared to $192.0 million in 2010. 
For 2011, net charge-offs totaled $161.8 million as compared to $190.9 million in 2010. Continued high levels of charge-offs reflect real
estate collateral values, particularly land values, which have remained low. Commercial real estate comprised 65% of net charge-offs in 2011, reflecting the challenging market conditions associated with these loan types. 
  62 


Table of Contents
The following table presents our allocation of the allowance for loan losses by specific
category for the past five years.  Table 24  Allocation of Allowance for Loan Losses  (Dollars in thousands) 
 












































 
 
As of December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
% ofTotalAllowance
 
 
2010
 
 
% ofTotalAllowance
 
 
2009
 
 
% ofTotalAllowance
 
 
2008
 
 
% ofTotalAllowance
 
 
2007
 
 
% ofTotalAllowance
 

 General allocated reserve:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
$
46,500
  
 
 
24 
  
 
$
52,100
  
 
 
23 
  
 
$
43,350
  
 
 
20 
  
 
$
39,524
  
 
 
35 
  
 
$
8,375
  
 
 
17 
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
56,000
  
 
 
29 
  
 
 
72,850
  
 
 
33 
  
 
 
77,223
  
 
 
35 
  
 
 
31,625
  
 
 
28 
  
 
 
22,909
  
 
 
47 
  

 Construction
 
 
7,650
  
 
 
4 
  
 
 
16,000
  
 
 
7 
  
 
 
23,581
  
 
 
10 
  
 
 
27,231
  
 
 
24 
  
 
 
9,966
  
 
 
20 
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
5,400
  
 
 
3 
  
 
 
4,275
  
 
 
2 
  
 
 
3,635
  
 
 
2 
  
 
 
1,294
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
360
  
 
 
1 
  

 Home equity
 
 
2,750
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
3,150
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
2,862
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
202
  
 
 
- 
  

 Personal
 
 
3,350
  
 
 
2 
  
 
 
3,475
  
 
 
2 
  
 
 
5,277
  
 
 
2 
  
 
 
1,527
  
 
 
2 
  
 
 
2,229
  
 
 
5 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total allocated
 
 
121,650
  
 
 
63 
  
 
 
151,850
  
 
 
68 
  
 
 
155,928
  
 
 
70 
  
 
 
102,201
  
 
 
91 
  
 
 
44,041
  
 
 
90 
  

 Specific reserve
 
 
69,944
  
 
 
37 
  
 
 
70,971
  
 
 
32 
  
 
 
65,760
  
 
 
30 
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
2,964
  
 
 
6 
  

 Unallocated reserve
 
 
-
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
10,141
  
 
 
9 
  
 
 
1,886
  
 
 
4 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
  191,594
  
 
 
100 
  
 
$
  222,821
  
 
 
100 
  
 
$
221,688
  
 
 
100 
  
 
$
  112,672
  
 
 
100 
  
 
$
  48,891
  
 
 
100 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Under our methodology, the allowance for loan losses is comprised of the following components: 
General Allocated Component of the Allowance  The general allocated component of the allowance decreased by $30.2 million during 2011, from $151.9 million at December 31, 2010 to $121.7 million at December 31, 2011. The reduction in the
general allocated reserve was primarily influenced by the improved risk profile of the performing portfolio during the year, as exposure in special mention and potential problem loans declined by $524.4 million, or 58%, due in part to the sale or
other disposition of these problem credits. Also, the portfolio is becoming more weighted in transformational and commercial loans, where our historical credit performance has been better, and less weighted in legacy and commercial real estate
loans, where historical performance has been weaker. This changing mix positively impacts reserve requirements, based on our historical loss experience to date.  The allocated reserve for our commercial real estate and construction portfolios, which represented 52% of our total allocated reserve at December 31, 2011, declined $25.2 million, or 28%, from
December 31, 2010. The decrease in this allocation is primarily due to a lower balance and improved risk ratings of remaining loans in the commercial real estate and construction sectors at the end of the current year as compared to the prior
year. The combined coverage ratio of the allocated reserve for these portfolios was 2.2% at December 31, 2011 and 2.6% at December 31, 2010.  Specific Component of the Allowance  At December 31, 2011, the
specific component of the allowance decreased by $1.1 million to $69.9 million from $71.0 million at December 31, 2010. The specific reserve requirements are primarily influenced by new loan additions to nonperforming status, as well as changes
to collateral values. Our impaired loans are primarily collateral-dependent with such loans totaling $291.1 million of the total $360.8 million in impaired loans at December 31, 2011. 
Reserve for Unfunded Commitments  In addition to the allowance for loan losses, we maintain a reserve for unfunded commitments at a level we believe to be sufficient to absorb estimated probable losses related to unfunded credit
facilities. At December 31, 2011, our reserve for unfunded commitments declined $842,000 from December 31, 2010 to $7.2 million as a result of an improved risk profile of the portfolio and a lower propensity to fund. Net adjustments to the
reserve for unfunded commitments are included in other non-interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Unfunded commitments, excluding covered assets, totaled $4.4 billion and $4.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. 
  63 


Table of Contents
COVERED ASSETS  Covered assets represent purchased loans and foreclosed loan collateral covered under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC as a result of the 2009 FDIC-assisted acquisition of the former Founders Bank
from the FDIC. Under the loss share agreements, the FDIC generally will assume 80% of the first $173 million of credit losses and 95% of the credit losses in excess of $173 million, in both cases relating to assets existing at the date of
acquisition.  The carrying amounts of covered assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are presented in the following table: 
Table 25 
Covered Assets  (Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Commercial loans
  
 $
31,568 
  
  
 $
44,812 
  

 Commercial real estate loans
  
 
150,210 
  
  
 
189,194 
  

 Residential mortgage loans
  
 
50,403 
  
  
 
56,748 
  

 Consumer installment and other loans
  
 
6,123 
  
  
 
9,129 
  

 Foreclosed real estate
  
 
30,342 
  
  
 
32,155 
  

 Assets in lieu
  
 
- 
  
  
 
469 
  

 Estimated loss reimbursement by the FDIC
  
 
38,161 
  
  
 
64,703 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total covered assets
  
 
306,807 
  
  
 
397,210 
  

 Allowance for covered loan losses
  
 
(25,939)
  
  
 
(15,334)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net covered assets
  
 $
      280,868 
  
  
 $
      381,876 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Total covered assets decreased by $90.4 million, or 23%, from $397.2 million at December 31, 2010 to
$306.8 million at December 31, 2011. The reduction is primarily attributable to $59.1 million in principal paydowns, net of advances, as well as the resulting impact of such on the evaluation of expected cash flows and discount accretion
levels. In addition, the estimated loss reimbursement by the FDIC (“the FDIC indemnification receivable”) further contributed to the reduction as a result of loss claims paid by the FDIC. The allowance for covered loan losses increased by
$10.6 million to $25.9 million at December 31, 2011 from $15.3 million at December 31, 2010, reflecting a further credit deterioration in expected cash flows on certain pools of covered loans since the date of acquisition. Of the total
increase in the allowance for covered loan losses, 80% was offset through the FDIC indemnification receivable and the remaining 20% representing the non-reimbursable portion of the loss share agreement recognized as a charge to provision for loan
and covered loan losses on the Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2011, the FDIC had reimbursed the Company $88.6 million in losses under the loss share agreements. 
The following table presents covered loan delinquencies and nonperforming covered assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and
excludes purchased impaired loans which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each purchased impaired pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past due status of
the pools, or that of individual loans within the pools, is not meaningful. Because we are recognizing interest income on each pool of such loans, they are all considered to be performing. Covered assets are excluded from the asset quality
presentation of our originated loan portfolio, given the loss share indemnification from the FDIC.  Table 26 
Past Due Covered Loans and Nonperforming Covered Assets  (Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 30-59 days past due
  
 $
7,221  
  
  
 $
5,885  
  

 60-89 days past due
  
 
3,479  
  
  
 
2,853  
  

 90 days or more past due and still accruing
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  

 Nonaccrual
  
 
19,894  
  
  
 
16,357  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total past due and nonperforming covered loans
  
 
30,594  
  
  
 
25,095  
  

 Foreclosed real estate
  
 
30,342  
  
  
 
32,155  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total past due and nonperforming covered assets
  
 $
            60,936  
  
  
 $
            57,250  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  64 


Table of Contents
FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 
We have implemented various policies to manage our liquidity position in order to meet our cash flow requirements and maintain sufficient
capacity to meet our clients’ needs and accommodate fluctuations in asset and liability levels due to changes in our business operations as well as unanticipated events. We also have in place contingency funding plans designed to allow us to
operate through a period of stress when access to normal sources of funding may be constrained. As part of our asset/liability management strategy, we utilize a variety of funding sources in an effort to optimize the balance of duration risk, cost,
liquidity risk and contingency planning.  The Bank’s principal sources of funds are client deposits, including large
institutional deposits, capital contributions by the parent company, and cash from operations. The Bank’s principal uses of funds include funding growth in the core asset portfolios, including loans, and to a lesser extent, our investment
portfolio, which is used primarily to manage interest rate and liquidity risk. The primary sources of funding for the holding company include dividends when received from its bank subsidiary, intercompany tax reimbursements from the Bank, and
proceeds from the issuance of senior, subordinated and convertible debt, as well as equity. Primary uses of funds for the parent company include repayment of maturing debt, interest paid to our debt holders, dividends paid to stockholders, and
capital contributions to the Bank.  We consider client deposits our core funding source. At
December 31, 2011, 84% of our total assets were funded by client deposits, compared to 80% at December 31, 2010. We define client deposits as all deposits other than traditional brokered deposits and non-client CDARS® (as described in the footnotes to Table 27 below). While we expect overall liquidity in the banking system to remain
high until economic recovery and market factors improve, the level of our client deposits may fluctuate based on client needs, seasonality and other economic or market factors. If the client deposits fluctuate due to any of these factors, we will
utilize other external sources of liquidity, including wholesale funding.  Given the commercial focus of our core business
strategy, a majority of our deposit base is comprised of corporate accounts which are typically larger than retail accounts. We have built a suite of deposit and cash management products and services that support our efforts to attract and retain
corporate client accounts. Thirteen client relationships, each with greater than $75 million in deposits accounted for $2.2 billion, or 21% of total deposits at December 31, 2011. A majority of the deposits greater than $75 million are from
financial services related businesses, including omnibus accounts from broker-dealer and mortgage companies representing underlying accounts of their customers that may be eligible for pass-through deposit insurance limits. Thirty-two relationships,
each with greater than $50 million in deposits, accounted for $3.3 billion, or 32% or total deposits at December 31, 2011. We take deposit concentration risk into account in managing our liquid asset levels. Liquid assets refer to cash on hand,
federal funds sold, unpledged securities, as well as collateral based borrowing. Net liquid assets represent the sum of the liquid asset categories less the amount of assets pledged to secure public funds and certain deposits that require
collateral. Net liquid assets at the Bank were $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We maintain liquidity at levels we believe sufficient to meet anticipated client liquidity needs, fund anticipated loan
growth, selectively purchase securities and investments and opportunistically pay down wholesale funds. 
While we first look toward internally generated deposits as our funding source, we utilize wholesale funding,
including brokered deposits, as needed to enhance liquidity and to fund asset growth. Brokered deposits are deposits that are sourced from external and unrelated financial institutions by a third party. This funding requires advance notification to
structure the type of deposit desired by the Bank. Brokered deposits can vary in term from one month to several years and have the benefit of being a source of longer-term funding. Our asset/liability management policy currently limits our use of
brokered deposits, excluding reciprocal CDARS®, to levels no more than 25% of total deposits, and total brokered
deposits to levels no more than 40% of total deposits. At December 31, 2011, brokered deposits exclusive of reciprocal
CDARS® were less than 1% of total deposits while total brokered deposits were 8% of total deposits. 
Our cash flows are comprised of three classifications: cash flows from operating activities, cash flows from investing activities, and
cash flows from financing activities. Cash flows from operating activities primarily include results of operations for the year, adjusted for items in net income that did not impact cash. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $62.1
million from 2010 to $270.3 million for 2011, which was primarily due to an increase in net income from the prior year. Cash flows from investing activities reflect the impact of loans and investments acquired for our interest-earning asset
portfolios and asset sales. For 2011, net cash used in investing activities was $405.2 million, compared to $504.0 million for the prior year. This change in cash flows represents larger amounts of cash redeployed towards investments and loans in
the prior year than the current year. Cash flows from financing activities include transactions and events whereby cash is obtained from depositors, creditors or investors. Net cash used in financing activities for 2011 was $157.5 million, compared
to net cash provided by financing activities of $410.9 million for the prior year. This change in cash flows represents the decrease in total deposits in the current year as compared to the prior year. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Deposits 
Middle market commercial client relationships from a diversified industry base in our markets are the primary source
of our deposit base. Due to our middle market commercial banking focused business model, our client deposit base provides access to larger deposit balances that result in a concentrated deposit base. The deposits are held in different deposit
products such as interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing demand deposits, CDARS®, savings and money market
accounts. The following table provides a comparison of deposits by category over the last three years.  Table 27
 Deposits  (Dollars in thousands)   




































 
  
As of December 31,
 
  
% Change
 

 
  
2011
 
  
%of Total
 
  
2010
 
  
%of Total
 
  
2009
 
  
%of Total
 
  
2011-2010
 
  
2010-2009
 

 Noninterest-bearing deposits
  
 $
3,244,307  
  
  
 
31.2  
  
  
 $
2,253,661  
  
  
 
21.4  
  
  
 $
1,840,900  
  
  
 
18.6  
  
  
 
44.0  
  
  
 
22.4  
  

 Interest-bearing deposits
  
 
595,238  
  
  
 
5.7  
  
  
 
616,761  
  
  
 
5.9  
  
  
 
752,728  
  
  
 
7.6  
  
  
 
-3.5  
  
  
 
-18.1  
  

 Savings deposits
  
 
210,138  
  
  
 
2.0  
  
  
 
190,685  
  
  
 
1.8  
  
  
 
141,614  
  
  
 
1.4  
  
  
 
10.2  
  
  
 
34.7  
  

 Money market accounts
  
 
4,168,082  
  
  
 
40.0  
  
  
 
4,631,138  
  
  
 
43.9  
  
  
 
3,912,361  
  
  
 
39.6  
  
  
 
-10.0  
  
  
 
18.4  
  

 Brokered deposits:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Traditional
  
 
20,499  
  
  
 
0.2  
  
  
 
329,107  
  
  
 
3.1  
  
  
 
389,590  
  
  
 
3.9  
  
  
 
-93.8  
  
  
 
-15.5  
  

 Client CDARS® (1)
  
 
795,452  
  
  
 
7.7  
  
  
 
852,458  
  
  
 
8.1  
  
  
 
979,728  
  
  
 
9.9  
  
  
 
-6.7  
  
  
 
-13.0  
  

 Non-client CDARS® (1)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
269,262  
  
  
 
2.6  
  
  
 
196,821  
  
  
 
2.0  
  
  
 
-100.0  
  
  
 
36.8  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total brokered deposits
  
 
815,951  
  
  
 
7.9  
  
  
 
1,450,827  
  
  
 
13.8  
  
  
 
1,566,139  
  
  
 
15.8  
  
  
 
-43.8  
  
  
 
-7.4  
  

 Time deposits
  
 
1,359,138  
  
  
 
13.1  
  
  
 
1,392,357  
  
  
 
13.2  
  
  
 
1,678,172  
  
  
 
17.0  
  
  
 
-2.4  
  
  
 
-17.0  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deposits
  
 $
  10,392,854  
  
  
 
100.0  
  
  
 $
  10,535,429  
  
  
 
100.0  
  
  
 $
  9,891,914  
  
  
 
100.0  
  
  
 
-1.4  
  
  
 
6.5  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Client deposits (2)
  
 $
10,372,355  
  
  
 
99.8  
  
  
 $
9,937,060  
  
  
 
94.3  
  
  
 $
9,305,503  
  
  
 
94.1  
  
  
 
4.4  
  
  
 
6.8  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 The CDARS® deposit program is a deposit services arrangement that effectively achieves FDIC deposit insurance for jumbo deposit relationships.
These deposits are classified as brokered deposits for regulatory deposit purposes; however, we classify certain of these deposits as client CDARS® due to the source being our client relationships and are, therefore, not traditional brokered
deposits. We also participate in a non-client CDARS® program that is more like a traditional brokered deposit program.   


 
(2) 
 Total deposits, net of traditional brokered deposits and non-client CDARS®. 
Total deposits at December 31, 2011 decreased by $142.6 million from year end 2010 as money market accounts,
non-client CDARS®, and traditional brokered deposits declined, partially offset by increased balances in noninterest-bearing deposits. Client deposits increased by $435.3 million from December 31, 2010 and client deposits as a percentage of
total deposits also increased from 94% at December 31, 2010 to almost all deposits at December 31, 2011. We anticipate client deposits to fluctuate in line with client needs and usage of liquidity. Noninterest-bearing deposits grew to $3.2
billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of 44% compared to one year ago. The increase in noninterest-bearing deposits can be attributed to several factors including growth from existing and new commercial client relationships, client focused
treasury management product offerings, and deposit movements 
  66 


Table of Contents

reflecting our clients’ desire to hold greater liquidity in this economic environment, as well as temporary unlimited insurance coverage on these types of accounts. From December 31,
2011 through December 31, 2012, all noninterest-bearing deposits, with the exception of negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, are fully insured by the FDIC.  In response to the provision of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring repeal of the regulatory prohibition on payment of interest on commercial demand deposits effective in July 2011, we began offering an
interest-bearing checking account for business customers in the third quarter of 2011. As anticipated, this change did not have a material effect on our deposit mix or our cost of funds in the low-rate environment. 
Brokered deposits totaled $816.0 million at December 31, 2011, decreasing $634.9 million from December 31,
2010 due to a reduced reliance on traditional brokered deposits and non-client CDARS® deposits. Brokered deposits at December 31, 2011 included $795.5 million in client-related CDARS®. Brokered deposits, excluding client CDARS®,
declined by $577.9 million from the prior year end and were less than 1% of total deposits at December 31, 2011 compared to 6% at December 31, 2010. Consistent with our funding needs, during 2011, we elected not to replace certain maturing
non-client CDARS® and traditional brokered deposits as total loans remained relatively flat and we continued to see client deposit inflows.  Public balances, denoting the funds held on account for municipalities and other public entities, are included as a part of our total deposits. We enter into specific agreements with certain public
customers to pledge collateral, primarily securities, in support of the balances on account. These relationships may provide cross-sell opportunities with treasury management, as well as other business referral opportunities. At December 31,
2011, we had public funds on account totaling $927.4 million, of which less than 32% were collateralized with securities. Year-to-year changes in balances are influenced by the tax collection activities of the various municipalities as well as the
general level of interest rates.  The following table presents our brokered and time deposits as of December 31, 2011,
which are expected to mature during the period specified.  Table 28 
Scheduled Maturities of Brokered and Time Deposits  (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Brokered
 
  
Time
 
  
Total
 

 Year ending December 31,
  



  



  




 2012:
  



  



  




 First quarter
  
 $
442,611 
  
  
 $
275,575 
  
  
 $
718,186 
  

 Second quarter
  
 
137,039 
  
  
 
246,369 
  
  
 
383,408 
  

 Third quarter
  
 
39,858 
  
  
 
210,799 
  
  
 
250,657 
  

 Fourth quarter
  
 
139,350 
  
  
 
175,498 
  
  
 
314,848 
  

 2013
  
 
46,884 
  
  
 
292,666 
  
  
 
339,550 
  

 2014
  
 
8,648 
  
  
 
34,917 
  
  
 
43,565 
  

 2015
  
 
1,561 
  
  
 
106,655 
  
  
 
108,216 
  

 2016
  
 
- 
  
  
 
16,515 
  
  
 
16,515 
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
- 
  
  
 
144 
  
  
 
144 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 $
    815,951 
  
  
 $
    1,359,138 
  
  
 $
    2,175,089 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table presents our time deposits of $100,000 or more as of December 31, 2011, which
are expected to mature during the period specified.  Table 29 
Maturities of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More (1) (Amounts in thousands)   








 
  
December 31,2011
 

 Maturing within 3 months
  
 $
629,461 
  

 After 3 but within 6 months
  
 
338,674 
  

 After 6 but within 12 months
  
 
482,258 
  

 After 12 months
  
 
416,655 
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 $
            1,867,048 
  


  
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Includes brokered deposits. 
  67 


Table of Contents
Over the past several years in the generally low interest rate environment, our clients have
tended to keep the maturities of their deposits short and short-term certificates of deposit have generally been renewed on terms and with maturities of similar duration. In the event that time deposits are not renewed, we expect to replace those
deposits with traditional deposits, brokered deposits, or borrowed money sufficient to meet our funding needs.  Short-term Borrowings
and Long-term Debt  Short-term borrowings, which at December 31, 2011 consisted solely of FHLB advances that
mature in one year or less, totaled $156.0 million, increasing by $37.4 million from $118.6 million at December 31, 2010, due to increases in short-term FHLB advances from the prior year. The year-over-year increase is attributable to the
reclassification from long-term debt as advances approach maturity. Scheduled maturities of short-term borrowings during the first quarter 2012 total $126.0 million. The following table provides a comparison of short-term borrowings by category for
the last three years.  Table 30  Short-Term Borrowings  (Dollars in thousands) 
 
































 
  
2011
 
 
 
  
2010
 
 
 
  
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
Rate (%)
 
 
  
  
Amount
 
  
Rate (%)
 
 
  
  
Amount
 
  
Rate (%)
 

 At year end:
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  




 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
$
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
$
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
$
3,975 
  
  
 
0.60 
  

 FHLB advances
  
 
156,000 
  
  
 
0.33 
  
 
 
  
 
117,620 
  
  
 
2.40 
  
 
 
  
 
211,000 
  
  
 
2.74 
  

 Credit facility and other borrowings
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
941 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total short-term borrowings
  
$
    156,000 
  
  
 
0.33 
  
 
 
  
$
    118,561 
  
  
 
2.40 
  
 
 
  
$
    214,975 
  
  
 
2.70 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

   Average for the
year:
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  




 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
$
16 
  
  
 
0.60 
  
 
 
  
$
2,063 
  
  
 
0.59 
  
 
 
  
$
33,786 
  
  
 
0.24 
  

 Borrowings under Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”) programs
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
391,027 
  
  
 
0.25 
  

 Federal funds purchased
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
5,589 
  
  
 
0.15 
  
 
 
  
 
45,008 
  
  
 
0.48 
  

 FHLB advances
  
 
74,380 
  
  
 
2.70 
  
 
 
  
 
171,752 
  
  
 
2.95 
  
 
 
  
 
174,991 
  
  
 
2.91 
  

 Contingent convertible senior notes
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
23,600 
  
  
 
5.77 
  

 Credit facility and other borrowings
  
 
522 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
1,035 
  
  
 
- 
  
 
 
  
 
4,658 
  
  
 
8.53 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total short-term borrowings
  
$
74,918 
  
  
 
2.68 
  
 
 
  
$
180,439 
  
  
 
2.82 
  
 
 
  
$
673,070 
  
  
 
1.20 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

   Maximum month-end
balance:
  



  



 
 
  



  



 
 
  



  




 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
$
5 
  
  



 
 
  
$
4,629 
  
  



 
 
  
$
102,666 
  
  




 Borrowings under FRB programs
  
 
- 
  
  



 
 
  
 
- 
  
  



 
 
  
 
700,000 
  
  




 Federal funds purchased
  
 
- 
  
  



 
 
  
 
- 
  
  



 
 
  
 
184,000 
  
  




 FHLB advances
  
 
156,000 
  
  



 
 
  
 
237,000 
  
  



 
 
  
 
211,000 
  
  




 Contingent convertible senior notes
  
 
- 
  
  



 
 
  
 
- 
  
  



 
 
  
 
114,680 
  
  




 Credit facility and other borrowings
  
 
2,291 
  
  



 
 
  
 
1,944 
  
  



 
 
  
 
20,000 
  
  



 Long-term debt, which is comprised of junior subordinated debentures, a subordinated debt facility and
the long-term portion of FHLB advances, decreased by $35.0 million to $379.8 million at December 31, 2011 from $414.8 million at December 31, 2010. The reduction in long-term debt was attributable to FHLB advance activity with $35.0
million of FHLB advances reclassified from long-term to short-term during the year.  In addition to on-balance sheet funding
and other liquid assets such as cash and investment securities, we maintain access to various external sources of funding, which assist in the prudent management of funding costs, interest rate risk, and anticipated funding needs or other
considerations. Some sources of funding are accessible same-day while others require advance notice. Funds that are immediately accessible include Federal Fund counterparty lines, which are uncommitted lines of credit from other financial
institutions, and the borrowing term is typically overnight. Availability of Federal Fund lines fluctuate based on market conditions and counterparty relationship strength. Unused overnight Fed Funds borrowings available for use totaled $200.0
million and $95.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Repurchase agreements (“Repos”) are also an immediate source of funding in which we pledge assets to a counterparty against which we can borrow with the agreement
to repurchase at a specified date in the future. Repos can vary in term, from overnight to longer, but are regarded as short-term in nature. An additional source of overnight funding is the discount window at the FRB. We maintain access to the
discount window by pledging loans as collateral to the FRB. Funding 
  68 


Table of Contents

availability is primarily dictated by the amount of loans pledged, but also impacted by the margin applied to the loans by the FRB. The amount of loans pledged to the FRB can fluctuate due to the
availability of loans eligible under the FRB’s criteria which include stipulations of documentation requirements, credit quality, payment status and other criteria. At December 31, 2011, we had $1.1 billion in borrowing capacity through
the FRB discount window’s primary credit program compared to $536.8 million at December 31, 2010. To increase our access to liquidity, during 2011, we became a member of the FHLB Chicago, establishing access to additional FHLB borrowing
capacity of $382.8 million at December 31, 2011.  Refer to Notes 11 and 12 to the “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional details regarding the junior subordinated debentures and subordinated debt facility.  CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS, OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK, AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES  Through our normal course of operations, we have entered into certain contractual obligations and other commitments. Such obligations generally relate to the funding of operations through deposits or debt
issuances, as well as leases for premises and equipment. As a financial services provider, we routinely enter into commitments to extend credit. While contractual obligations represent our future cash requirements, a significant portion of
commitments to extend credit may expire without being drawn upon. Such commitments are subject to the same credit policies and approval process as all comparable loans we make. 
The following table presents our significant fixed and determinable contractual obligations and significant commitments as of
December 31, 2011 which are expected to come due and payable during the period specified. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in the referenced note to the consolidated financial statements. 
Table 31 
Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingencies, and Off-Balance Sheet Items 
(Amounts in thousands)   


























 
 
 
 
Payments Due In(2)
 
 
 
 

 
 
Financial    Statement    Note    
Reference(1)    
 
Less ThanOne Year
 
 
One to  Three Years  
 
 
    Three to    FiveYears
 
 
    Over Five    Years
 
 
Total
 

 Deposits without a stated maturity
 
9
 
$
   8,217,765 
  
 
$
- 
  
 
$
- 
  
 
$
- 
  
 
$
   8,217,765 
  

 Time deposits
 
9
 
 
908,241 
  
 
 
327,583 
  
 
 
123,170 
  
 
 
144 
  
 
 
1,359,138  
  

 Brokered deposits (3)
 
9
 
 
758,858 
  
 
 
55,532 
  
 
 
1,561 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
815,951 
  

 Short-term borrowings
 
10
 
 
156,000 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
156,000 
  

 Long-term debt
 
11
 
 
- 
  
 
 
7,000 
  
 
 
123,000 
  
 
 
249,793 
  
 
 
379,793 
  

 Operating leases
 
7
 
 
10,903 
  
 
 
21,590 
  
 
 
20,150 
  
 
 
52,508 
  
 
 
105,151 
  

 Purchase obligations (4)
 
-
 
 
40,355 
  
 
 
42,454 
  
 
 
42,048 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
124,857 
  









 Commitments to extend credit:
 

 



 



 



 



 




 Home equity lines
 
19
 



 



 



 



 
 
159,072 
  

 All other commitments
 
19
 



 



 



 



 
 
3,948,097 
  

 Letters of credit:
 

 



 



 



 



 




 Standby
 
19
 



 



 



 



 
 
367,714 
  

 Commercial
 
19
 



 



 



 



 
 
2,127 
  
    
 


 
(1) 
 Refer to “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 


 
(2) 
 In the banking industry, interest-bearing obligations are principally utilized to fund interest-earning assets. As such, interest charges on related
contractual obligations were excluded from reported amounts as the potential cash outflows would have corresponding cash inflows form interest-earning assets. 


 
(3) 
 Includes $42,000 of unamortized broker commissions. 


 
(4) 
 Purchase obligations exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on our Consolidated Statements of
Financial Condition.  Our operating lease obligations represent short- and long-term lease and rental
payments for facilities, equipment, and certain software or data processing.  Purchase obligations at December 31, 2011
reflect the minimum obligation under legally binding contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. Our purchase obligations include payments under, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, data,

  69 


Table of Contents

advertising, sponsorships, software license and telecommunications. Purchase obligations also includes the estimated aggregate cash severance amounts (not prohibited under the executive
compensation restrictions applicable to Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) participants) that would be due to employees under employment contracts and arrangements, assuming all employees with
such arrangements were involuntarily terminated on December 31, 2011.  Our commitments to fund civic and community
investments, which represent future cash outlays for the construction and development of properties for low-income housing, small business real estate, and historic tax credit projects that qualify for CRA purposes, are not included in the
contractual obligations table above. The timing and amounts of these commitments are projected based upon the financing arrangements provided in each project’s partnership or operating agreement, and could change due to variances in the
construction schedule, project revisions, or the cancellation of the project.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had
$454,000 of unrecognized tax benefits (exclusive of net interest expense accruals) that would impact the effective tax rate if recognized in future periods. Because the amount and timing of any future cash settlements cannot be predicted with
reasonable certainty, this estimated liability has been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See Note 15 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information and
disclosure related to uncertain tax positions.  Due to the recent uncertainties with regard to European sovereign debt
holdings, particularly those countries experiencing significant economic, fiscal or political strains, there are concerns regarding the risks to financial institutions as a result of direct and indirect exposures to European sovereign and
non-sovereign debt holdings. As it relates to our investment portfolio, we had no direct funded or non-funded exposure to European sovereign or non-sovereign entities in either our Held-to-Maturity or Available-for-Sale portfolios as of December 31,
2011. However, we conduct business with European financial institutions headquartered in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, France, and Germany, related to repurchase agreements, interest rate swaps, balance sheet hedging, foreign exchange
transactions and letter of credit issuance. As is common market practice, certain of our interest rate derivatives and letter of credit transactions with such European financial institutions (including their US branches and subsidiaries) are
collateralized with approximately $54 million of investment securities at December 31, 2011. The interest rate derivative transactions are subject to master netting and collateral support agreements which significantly limit the Company’s
exposure to loss as they generally require daily posting of collateral. At December 31, 2011, the Company was in a net payable position to each of these European banks. We also maintained cash balances with various European financial institutions in
the aforementioned countries to support our foreign exchange business. As of December 31, 2011, we do not have any outstanding borrowings under lines for repurchase agreements. 
The Company may have direct or indirect exposure to foreign subsidiaries and affiliates of United States (“US”)-domiciled
commercial clients. Those entities may be co-borrowers or guarantors of the US parent’s credit facilities with the Company, and in some cases collateral consisting of assets or stock of those entities may be pledged to the Company to secure
payment and performance of those credit facilities. In most cases however, the underwriting and credit decision is based on the performance of the US alone. See, “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more
information.  CAPITAL  Equity totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011, increasing by $68.8 million from December 31, 2010 and was largely attributable to current year net income and higher net unrealized gains on
available-for-sale securities included in accumulated other comprehensive income.  Capital Issuances 
We did not have any common or preferred stock offerings in either 2011 or 2010.  Capital Management  Under applicable regulatory capital adequacy
guidelines, the Company and the Bank are subject to various capital requirements adopted and administered by the federal banking agencies. These guidelines specify minimum capital ratios calculated in accordance with the definitions in the
guidelines, including the leverage ratio which is Tier 1 capital as a percentage of adjusted average assets, and the Tier 1 capital ratio and the total capital ratio each as a percentage of risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items that have
been weighted according to broad risk categories. These minimum ratios are shown in the table below.  To satisfy safety and
soundness standards, banking institutions are expected to maintain capital levels in excess of the regulatory minimums depending on the risk inherent in the balance sheet, regulatory expectations and the changing risk profile of business activities
and plans. Under our capital planning policy, we target capital ratios at levels we believe are appropriate based on such risk considerations, taking into account the current operating and economic environment, internal risk guidelines, and our
strategic objectives as well as regulatory expectations. At the Bank, primarily due to our credit loss experience and recent levels of nonperforming loans, our policy currently calls for minimum capital ratios of 8.25% Tier 1 leverage and 12.0%
total risk-based capital. We have not set a timetable for repaying TARP funds but are continuing to evaluate the best timing and approach for the shareholders and the Company. 
  70 


Table of Contents
The following table presents information about our capital measures and the related regulatory capital
guidelines.  Table 32  Capital Measurements  (Dollars in thousands) 
 




























 
  
Actual
 
  
FRB GuidelinesFor MinimumRegulatory Capital
 
  
Regulatory MinimumFor “Well 
Capitalized”under FDICIA
 

 
  
  December 31,  
2011
 
  
  December 31,  
2010
 
  
   Ratio   
 
  
  Excess Over  
RegulatoryMinimum at12/31/11
 
  
Ratio
 
  
 Excess Over WellCapitalizedunderFDICIA at12/31/11
 

 Regulatory capital ratios:
   
  



  



  



  



  




 Total risk-based capital:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
 
14.28%
  
  
 
14.18%
  
  
 
8.00%
  
  
  $
702,560    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
n/a    
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
12.66    
  
  
 
12.32    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
10.00%
  
  
$
297,213    
  









 Tier 1 risk-based capital:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
 
12.38    
  
  
 
12.06    
  
  
 
4.00    
  
  
 
937,272    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
n/a    
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
10.76    
  
  
 
10.19    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
6.00    
  
  
 
531,240    
  









 Tier 1 leverage:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
 
11.33    
  
  
 
10.78    
  
  
 
4.00    
  
  
 
896,073    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
n/a    
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
9.85    
  
  
 
9.11    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
n/a    
  
  
 
5.00    
  
  
 
591,493    
  








 Other capital ratios (consolidated) (1):
   
  



  



  



  



  




 Tier 1 common equity to risk- weighted assets (2)
  
 
8.04    
  
  
 
7.69    
  
  



  



  



  




 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (2)
  
 
7.69    
  
  
 
7.10    
  
  



  



  



  




 Tangible equity to tangible assets (2)
  
 
9.64    
  
  
 
9.04    
  
  



  



  



  




 Tangible equity to risk- weighted assets (2)
  
 
10.60    
  
  
 
10.08    
  
  



  



  



  




 Total equity to total assets
  
 
10.44    
  
  
 
9.85    
  
  



  



  



  



  


 
(1) 
 Ratios are not subject to formal FRB regulatory guidance. 
 


 
(2) 
 Ratios are non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. Refer to Table 33, “Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures” for a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP
presentation.   


 
n/a
 Not applicable  As of December 31, 2011, all of our $244.8 million of outstanding junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities
(“Debentures”) are included in Tier 1 capital. The Tier 1 qualifying amount is limited to 25% of Tier 1 capital under FRB regulations. Further, of the $120.0 million in outstanding subordinated debt facility at December 31, 2011, 60%
of the balance qualified as Tier II capital. Effective in the third quarter 2010, Tier II capital qualification was reduced by 20% of the total balance outstanding and annually thereafter will be reduced by an additional 20%. For a full description
of our Debentures and subordinated debt, refer to Notes 11 and 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  For further details of the regulatory capital requirements and ratios as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 for the Company and the Bank, refer to Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Dividends 
We declared dividends of $0.04 per common share during 2011. Based on the closing stock price at December 31, 2011 of $10.98, the
annualized dividend yield on our common stock was 0.36%. The dividend payout ratio, which represents the percentage of dividends declared to stockholders to earnings per share, was 9.3% for 2011. We have no current plans to seek to raise dividends
on our common stock. 
  71 


Table of Contents
As a result of our participation in the TARP CPP, prior to January 30, 2012, we were
subject to various restrictions on our ability to increase the cash dividends we pay on our common stock above the quarterly rate of $0.075 per share, the rate in effect when our participation in TARP CPP began. Although this restriction is no
longer applicable, we still may not pay dividends on our common stock unless we have paid dividends on our outstanding preferred stock, including the CPP preferred stock, and non-voting common stock. In addition, we currently provide notice to and
obtain approval from the FRB before declaring or paying any dividends. For additional information regarding limitations and restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, refer to the “Supervision and Regulation” and “Risk
Factors” sections in Item 1 and Item 1A, respectively, of this Form 10-K.  Stock Repurchase Program 
Our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock is subject to the applicable restrictions of the CPP following the sale of the
preferred stock to the Treasury under the TARP program. Please refer to EESA in “Supervision and Regulation” of Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of the CPP and TARP programs. 
In connection with restrictions on stock repurchases as part of the CPP, we terminated our repurchase program in February 2009. The
restrictions on repurchases will not affect our ability to repurchase shares in connection with the administration of our employee benefit plans, as such transactions are in the ordinary course and consistent with our past practice. During 2011, we
repurchased 117,616 shares with an average value of $11.91 per share with all repurchases associated with shares submitted in satisfaction of taxes and/or exercise price amounts in connection with the settlement of share-based compensation awards.
 IMPACT OF INFLATION  Our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this report have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and practices within the
banking industry. Under these principles and practices, we are required to measure our financial position in terms of historical dollars, without considering changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. 
Unlike many industrial companies, virtually all of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a
more significant impact on our performance than the general level of inflation. Over short periods of time, interest rates may not necessarily move in the same direction or in the same magnitude as inflation. For analysis of our sensitivity to
changes in interest rates, refer to the “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” section at Item 7A of this Form 10-K.  NON-U.S. GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES  This report contains both U.S. GAAP and
non-U.S. GAAP based financial measures. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures include net interest income, net interest margin, net revenue, operating profit, and efficiency ratio all on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, Tier 1 common equity to
risk-weighted assets, tangible common equity to tangible assets, tangible equity to risk-weighted assets, tangible equity to tangible assets, and tangible book value. We believe that presenting these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures will provide
information useful to investors in understanding our underlying operational performance, our business, and performance trends and facilitates comparisons with the performance of others in the banking industry. 
We use net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis in calculating various performance measures by increasing the interest income
earned on tax-exempt assets to make it fully equivalent to interest income earned on taxable investments assuming a 35% tax rate. Management believes this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it enhances
comparability to net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources, and accordingly believes that providing this measure may be useful for peer comparison purposes. 
In addition to capital ratios defined by banking regulators, we also consider various measures when evaluating capital utilization and
adequacy, including Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets, tangible common equity to tangible assets, tangible equity to tangible assets, tangible equity to risk-weighted assets, and tangible book value. These calculations are intended to
complement the capital ratios defined by banking regulators for both absolute and comparative purposes. All of these measures exclude the ending balances of goodwill and other intangibles while certain of these ratios exclude preferred capital
components. Because U.S. GAAP does not include capital ratio measures, we believe there are no comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures to these ratios. We believe these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are relevant because they provide information
that is helpful in assessing the level of capital available to withstand unexpected market conditions. Additionally, presentation of these measures allows readers to compare certain aspects of our capitalization to other companies. However, because
there are no standardized definitions for these ratios, our calculations may not be comparable with other companies, and the usefulness of these measures to investors may be limited. 
  72 


Table of Contents
Non-U.S. GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly
applied, and are not audited. Although these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute
for analyses of results as reported under U.S. GAAP. As a result, we encourage readers to consider our Consolidated Financial Statements in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. 
The following table reconciles Non-U.S. GAAP financial measures to U.S. GAAP:  Table 33  Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)  (Unaudited)   
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 

 Taxable-equivalent interest income
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. GAAP net interest income
  
 $
407,127 
  
  
 $
400,957 
  
  
 $
324,984 
  
  
 $
190,395 
  
  
 $
127,038 
  

 Taxable-equivalent adjustment
  
 
2,857 
  
  
 
3,577 
  
  
 
3,612 
  
  
 
3,857 
  
  
 
4,274 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Taxable-equivalent net interest income (a)
  
 $
409,984 
  
  
 $
404,534 
  
  
 $
328,596 
  
  
 $
194,252 
  
  
 $
131,312 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Average Earning Assets (b)
  
 $
   11,746,032 
  
  
 $
    11,978,364 
  
  
 $
   10,740,119 
  
  
 $
    7,111,380 
  
  
 $
      4,180,179 
  








 Net Interest Margin (a) / (b)
  
 
3.49%
  
  
 
3.38%
  
  
 
3.06%
  
  
 
2.73%
  
  
 
3.14%
  








 Net Revenue
  



  



  



  



  




 Taxable-equivalent net interest income (a)
  
 $
409,984 
  
  
 $
404,534 
  
  
 $
328,596 
  
  
 $
194,252 
  
  
 $
131,312 
  

 U.S. GAAP non-interest income
  
 
98,247 
  
  
 
93,246 
  
  
 
71,470 
  
  
 
41,316 
  
  
 
26,274 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net revenue
  
 $
508,231 
  
  
 $
497,780 
  
  
 $
400,066 
  
  
 $
235,568 
  
  
 $
157,586 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Operating Profit
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. GAAP income before income taxes
  
 $
70,200 
  
  
 $
64 
  
  
 $
(50,380)
  
  
 $
(153,993)
  
  
 $
13,969 
  

 Provision for loan and covered loan losses
  
 
132,897 
  
  
 
194,541 
  
  
 
199,419 
  
  
 
189,579 
  
  
 
16,934 
  

 Taxable-equivalent adjustment
  
 
2,857 
  
  
 
3,577 
  
  
 
3,612 
  
  
 
3,857 
  
  
 
4,274 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating profit
  
 $
205,954 
  
  
 $
198,182 
  
  
 $
152,651 
  
  
 $
39,443 
  
  
 $
35,177 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Efficiency Ratio
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. GAAP non-interest expense (c)
  
 $
302,277 
  
  
 $
299,598 
  
  
 $
247,415 
  
  
 $
196,125 
  
  
 $
122,409 
  

 Taxable-equivalent net interest income (a)
  
 $
409,984 
  
  
 $
404,534 
  
  
 $
328,596 
  
  
 $
194,252 
  
  
 $
131,312 
  

 U.S. GAAP non-interest income
  
 
98,247 
  
  
 
93,246 
  
  
 
71,470 
  
  
 
41,316 
  
  
 
26,274 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net revenue (d)
  
 $
508,231 
  
  
 $
497,780 
  
  
 $
400,066 
  
  
 $
235,568 
  
  
 $
157,586 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Efficiency ratio (c) / (d)
  
 
59.48%
  
  
 
60.19%
  
  
 
61.84%
  
  
 
83.26%
  
  
 
77.68%
  

  73 


Table of Contents
 


























 
  
Years Ended December 31,

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007

 Tier 1 Common Capital
  



  



  



  



  



 


 U.S. GAAP total equity
  
 $
1,296,752  
  
  
 $
1,227,910  
  
  
 $
1,235,616  
  
  
 $
605,566
  
  
 $
501,972
  
 


 Trust preferred securities
  
 
244,793  
  
  
 
244,793  
  
  
 
244,793  
  
  
 
192,667
  
  
 
101,033
  
 


 Less: accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax
  
 
46,697  
  
  
 
20,078  
  
  
 
27,896  
  
  
 
27,568
  
  
 
7,934
  
 


 Less: disallowed deferred tax assets
  
 
-  
  
  
 
5,377  
  
  
 
7,619  
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 


 Less: goodwill
  
 
94,571  
  
  
 
94,621  
  
  
 
94,671  
  
  
 
95,045
  
  
 
93,341
  
 


 Less: other intangibles
  
 
15,353  
  
  
 
16,840  
  
  
 
18,485  
  
  
 
6,544
  
  
 
6,457
  
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 


 Tier 1 risk-based capital
  
 
1,384,924  
  
  
 
1,335,787  
  
  
 
1,331,738  
  
  
 
669,076
  
  
 
495,273
  
 


 Less: preferred stock
  
 
240,403  
  
  
 
238,903  
  
  
 
237,487  
  
  
 
58,070
  
  
 
41,000
  
 


 Less: trust preferred securities
  
 
244,793  
  
  
 
244,793  
  
  
 
244,793  
  
  
 
192,667
  
  
 
101,033
  
 


 Less: noncontrolling interests
  
 
-  
  
  
 
33  
  
  
 
33  
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
33
  
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 


 Tier 1 common capital (e)
  
 $
      899,728  
  
  
 $
       852,058  
  
  
 $
      849,425  
  
  
 $
       418,306
  
  
 $
       353,207
  
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 










 Tangible Common Equity
  



  



  



  



  



 


 U.S. GAAP total equity
  
 $
1,296,752  
  
  
 $
1,227,910  
  
  
 $
1,235,616  
  
  
 $
605,566
  
  
 $
501,972
  
 


 Less: goodwill
  
 
94,571  
  
  
 
94,621  
  
  
 
94,671  
  
  
 
95,045
  
  
 
93,341
  
 


 Less: other intangibles
  
 
15,353  
  
  
 
16,840  
  
  
 
18,485  
  
  
 
6,544
  
  
 
6,457
  
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 


 Tangible equity (f)
  
 
1,186,828  
  
  
 
1,116,449  
  
  
 $
1,122,460  
  
  
 
503,977
  
  
 
402,174
  
 


 Less: preferred stock
  
 
240,403  
  
  
 
238,903  
  
  
 
237,487  
  
  
 
58,070
  
  
 
41,000
  
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 


 Tangible common equity (g)
  
 $
946,425  
  
  
 $
877,546  
  
  
 $
884,973  
  
  
 $
445,907
  
  
 $
361,174
  
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 










 Tangible Assets
  



  



  



  



  



 


 U.S. GAAP total assets
  
 $
12,416,870  
  
  
 $
12,465,621  
  
  
 $
12,032,584  
  
  
 $
10,005,519
  
  
 $
4,989,203
  
 


 Less: goodwill
  
 
94,571  
  
  
 
94,621  
  
  
 
94,671  
  
  
 
95,045
  
  
 
93,341
  
 


 Less: other intangibles
  
 
15,353  
  
  
 
16,840  
  
  
 
18,485  
  
  
 
6,544
  
  
 
6,457
  
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 


 Tangible assets (h)
  
 $
12,306,946  
  
  
 $
12,354,160  
  
  
 $
11,919,428  
  
  
 $
9,903,930
  
  
 $
4,889,405
  
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 










 Risk-weighted Assets (i)
  
 $
11,191,298  
  
  
 $
11,080,051  
  
  
 $
10,812,520  
  
  
 $
9,210,473
  
  
 $
4,337,498
  
 










 Period-end Common Shares Outstanding (j)
  
 
71,745  
  
  
 
71,327  
  
  
 
71,332  
  
  
 
33,568
  
  
 
28,075
  
 










 Ratios:
  



  



  



  



  



 


 Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets (e) / (i)
  
 
8.04%  
  
  
 
7.69%  
  
  
 
7.86%  
  
  
 
4.54%
  
  
 
8.14%
  
 


 Tangible equity to tangible assets (f) / (h)
  
 
9.64%  
  
  
 
9.04%  
  
  
 
9.42%  
  
  
 
5.09%
  
  
 
8.23%
  
 


 Tangible equity to risk-weighted assets (f) / (i)
  
 
10.60%  
  
  
 
10.08%  
  
  
 
10.38%  
  
  
 
5.47%
  
  
 
9.27%
  
 


 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (g) / (h)
  
 
7.69%  
  
  
 
7.10%  
  
  
 
7.42%  
  
  
 
4.50%
  
  
 
7.39%
  
 


 Tangible book value (g) / (j)
  
 $
13.19  
  
  
 $
12.30  
  
  
 $
12.41  
  
  
 $
13.28
  
  
 $
12.86
  
 

 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and our accounting policies are consistent with predominant practices in the financial services industry. Critical
accounting policies are those policies that require management to make the most significant estimates, assumptions, and judgments based on information available at the date of the financial statements that affect the amounts reported in the
financial statements and accompanying notes. Future changes in information may affect these estimates, assumptions, and judgments, which, in turn, may affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. 
Our most significant accounting policies are presented in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements of Item 8 of this Form 10-K. These policies, along with the disclosures presented in the other consolidated financial statement notes and in this discussion, provide information on how significant assets and
liabilities are valued in the consolidated financial statements and how those values are determined. Based on the valuation techniques used and the sensitivity of financial statement amounts to the methods, assumptions, and estimates underlying
those amounts, management has determined that our accounting policies with respect to the allowance for loan losses, goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes and fair value 
  74 


Table of Contents

measurements are the accounting areas requiring subjective or complex judgments that are most important to our financial position and results of operations, and, as such, are considered to be
critical accounting policies, as discussed below.  Allowance for Loan Losses 
We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan
portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is assessed quarterly and represents an accounting estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date based on a review of available and relevant information at that time. The allowance
consists of provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships that are individually evaluated for impairment (“the specific component”), as well as probable losses inherent in our loan
portfolio that are not specifically identified (“the general allocated component”), which is determined using a methodology that is a function of quantitative and qualitative factors applied to segments of our loan portfolio as well as
management’s judgment.  The specific component relates to impaired loans. Impaired loans consist of nonaccrual loans
(which include nonaccrual TDRs) and loans classified as accruing TDRs. A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, management believes that it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due (both
principal and interest) according to the original contractual terms of the loan agreement. Once a loan is determined to be impaired, the amount of impairment is measured based on the loan’s observable fair value, fair value of the underlying
collateral less selling costs if the loan is collateral-dependent, or the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate.  If the measurement of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, impairment is recognized by creating a specific valuation reserve as a component of the allowance for loan losses.
Impaired loans exceeding $500,000 are evaluated individually, while loans less than $500,000 are evaluated as pools using historical loss experience, as well as management’s loss expectations, for the respective asset class and product type.
 Impaired loans with specific reserves are reviewed quarterly for any changes that would affect the specific reserve. Any
impaired loan for which a determination has been made that the economic value is permanently reduced is charged-off against the allowance for loan losses to reflect its current economic value in the period in which the determination has been made.
 At the time a collateral-dependent loan is initially determined to be impaired, we review the existing collateral appraisal.
If the most recent appraisal is greater than a year old, a new appraisal is obtained on the underlying collateral. Appraisals for loans in excess of $500,000 are updated with a new independent appraisal at least annually and are formally reviewed by
our internal appraisal department upon receipt of a new appraisal as well as at the six-month interval between the independent appraisals. All impaired loans and their related reserves are reviewed and updated each quarter. If during the course of
the six-month review period there is evidence supporting a meaningful decline in the value of collateral, a new appraisal is required to support the value of the impaired loan. With an immaterial number of exceptions, all appraisals and internal
reviews are current under this methodology at December 31, 2011.  To determine the general allocated component of the
allowance for loan losses, we segregate loans by originating line of business and vintage (“transformational” and “legacy”) for reserve purposes because of observable similarities in the performance experience of loans
underwritten by these business units. In general, loans originated by the business units that existed prior to the strategic changes of the Company in 2007 are considered “legacy” loans. Loans originated by a business unit that was
established in connection with or following the strategic business transformation plan are considered “transformational” loans. Renewals or restructurings of legacy loans may continue to be evaluated as legacy loans depending on the
structure or defining characteristics of the new transaction. The Company has implemented a line of business model that has reorganized the legacy business units so that after 2009, all new loan originations are considered transformational.
 The methodology produces an estimated range of potential loss exposure for the product types within each originating line of
business. We consider the appropriate balance of the general allocated component of the reserve within these ranges based on a variety of internal and external quantitative and qualitative factors to reflect data or timeframes not captured by the
basic allowance framework as well as market and economic data and management judgment. In certain instances, these additional factors and judgments may lead to management’s conclusion that the appropriate level of the reserve is outside the
range determined through the basic allowance framework.  Determination of the allowance is inherently subjective, as it
requires significant estimates, including the amounts and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on historical loss experience, risk ratings, product type, and vintage, as well as
consideration of current economic trends and portfolio attributes, all of which may be susceptible to significant change. 
Credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible are charged-off against the allowance, while recoveries of amounts previously charged-off are
credited to the allowance. A provision for loan losses, which is a charge against earnings, is recorded to bring the allowance for 
  75 


Table of Contents

loan losses to a level that, in management’s judgment, is appropriate to absorb probable losses in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets  Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired using the acquisition method of accounting. Other intangible assets represent purchased assets that also lack
physical substance but can be distinguished from goodwill because of contractual or other legal rights or because the asset is capable of being sold or exchanged either on its own or in combination with a related contract, asset, or liability.
 Goodwill is allocated to reporting units at acquisition. Subsequently, goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is tested at
the reporting unit level at least an annually for impairment or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In the event
that we conclude that all or a portion of our goodwill may be impaired, a noncash charge for the amount of such impairment would be recorded in earnings. Such a charge would have no impact on tangible or regulatory capital. 
The impairment testing process is conducted by assigning net assets and goodwill to each reporting unit. In “step one,” the
fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the recorded book value. Our step one calculation of each reporting unit’s fair value is based upon a simple average of two metrics: (1) a primary market approach, which measures fair value
based upon trading multiples of independent publicly traded financial institutions of comparable size and character to the reporting units, and (2) an income approach, which estimates fair value based upon discounted cash flows
(“DCF”) and terminal value (using the perpetuity growth method). If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not considered impaired and “step two” is not considered necessary. If the carrying
value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the impairment test continues (“step two”) by comparing the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill to the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is
determined using the residual approach, where the fair value of a reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting
unit, calculated in step one, is the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment charge is
recognized to the extent the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill.  Goodwill impairment
testing is considered a “critical accounting estimate” as estimates and assumptions are made about future performance and cash flows, as well as other prevailing market factors. For our annual impairment testing, we engage an independent
valuation firm to assist in the computation of the fair value estimates of each reporting unit as part of its impairment assessment. In connection with obtaining an independent third-party valuation, management provides certain information and
assumptions that are utilized in the DCF and implied fair value calculations. Assumptions critical to the process include: forecasted cash flows, which are developed for each segment by considering several key business drivers such as historical
performance, forward interest rates (using forward interest rate curves to forecast future expected interest rates), anticipated loan and deposit growth, and industry and economic trends; discount rates; and credit quality assessments, among other
considerations. We provide the best information available at the time to be used in these estimates and calculations.  In our
annual goodwill impairment test performed as of October 31, 2011, the Company determined that the Trust and Investments reporting unit “passed” (the fair value exceeded the carrying amount) step one of the goodwill impairment test, while
the Banking reporting unit failed step one of the impairment test. As a result of the step one procedures performed, the Banking reporting unit’s adjusted net book value exceeded its fair value by approximately $45.9 million. However, the
Company determined that no goodwill impairment charge was necessary based on the implied fair value adjustments of the Banking reporting unit’s assets and liabilities determined in the step two valuation procedures. As a result of the step two
procedures performed, the implied fair value of the Banking reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by approximately $90.4 million.  Identified intangible assets that have a finite useful life are amortized over that life in a manner that reflects the estimated decline in the economic value of the identified intangible asset and are
subject to impairment testing whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. During 2011, there were no events or circumstances to indicate that there may be impairment of intangible assets. All
of the other intangible assets have finite lives which are amortized over varying periods not exceeding 15 years and include core deposit premiums, client relationship, and assembled workforce intangibles, which are amortized on a straight line
basis.  Income Taxes  The determination of income tax expense or benefit, and the amounts of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities are based on complex analyses of many factors, including interpretation of
federal and state income tax laws, current financial accounting standards, the difference between tax and financial reporting bases of assets and liabilities (temporary differences), assessments of the likelihood that the reversals of deferred
deductible temporary differences will yield tax benefits, and estimates of reserves required for tax uncertainties. In addition, for interim reporting purposes, management generally determines its income tax provision, exclusive of any discrete
items, based on its current best estimate of pre-tax income, permanent differences and the resulting effective tax rate expected for the full year.  We are subject to the federal income tax laws of the United States and the tax laws of the states and other jurisdictions where we conduct business. We periodically undergo examination by various
governmental taxing authorities. Such authorities may require that changes in the amount of tax expense be recognized when their interpretations of tax law differ from those of management, based on

  76 


Table of Contents

their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examinations. There can be no assurance that future events, such as court decisions, new interpretations of existing law
or positions by federal or state taxing authorities, will not result in tax liability amounts that differ from our current assessment of such amounts, the impact of which could be significant to future results. 
Temporary differences may give rise to deferred tax assets or liabilities, which are recorded on our Consolidated Statements of Financial
Condition. We assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realized in future periods based on weighing both positive and negative evidence and establish a valuation allowance for those deferred tax assets for which recovery is unlikely,
based on a standard of “more likely” than not. In making this assessment, we must make judgments and estimates regarding the ability to realize these assets through: (a) the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences,
(b) future taxable income, (c) the possible application of future tax planning strategies, and (d) carryback to taxable income in prior years. We have not established a valuation allowance relating to our deferred tax assets at
December 31, 2011. However, there is no guarantee that the tax benefits associated with these deferred tax assets will be fully realized. We have concluded, as of December 31, 2011, that it is more likely than not that such tax benefits
will be realized.  In the preparation of income tax returns, tax positions are taken based on interpretation of federal and
state income tax laws for which the outcome of such positions may not be certain. We periodically review and evaluate the status of uncertain tax positions and may establish tax reserves for tax benefits that may not be realized. The amount of any
such reserves are based on the standards for determining such reserves as set forth in current accounting guidance and our estimates of amounts that may ultimately be due or owed (including interest). These estimates may change from time to time
based on our evaluation of developments subsequent to the filing of the income tax return, such as tax authority audits, court decisions or other tax law interpretations. There can be no assurance that any tax reserves will be sufficient to cover
tax liabilities that may ultimately be determined to be owed. At December 31, 2011, we had $454,000 of tax reserves established relating to uncertain tax positions that would favorably affect the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized
in future periods.  For additional discussion of income taxes, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Income Taxes” and Notes 1 and 15 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Fair Value Measurements  Certain of the Company’s assets and
liabilities are measured at fair value at each reporting date, including securities available for sale, derivatives, and certain loans held for sale. Additionally, other assets are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates,
including goodwill and other intangible assets, assets acquired in business combinations, impaired loans, and OREO.  The
Company measures fair value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
 U.S. GAAP establishes a fair value hierarchy that categorizes fair value measurements based on the observability of the
valuation inputs used in determining fair value. Level 1 valuations are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets. Level 2 valuations are based on quoted prices for similar instruments, quoted prices in
markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 valuations use at least one significant unobservable input that is supported by little or no market activity. 
Judgment is required to determine whether certain assets measured at fair value are included in Level 2 or Level 3. When making this
judgment, we consider all available information, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. Classification of Level 2 or Level 3
is based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category and judgments are made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments’ fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs
are considered significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3.  Judgment is also required when determining the fair
value of an asset or liability when either relevant observable inputs do not exist or available observable inputs are in a market that is not active. When relevant observable inputs are not available, the Company must use its own assumptions about
future cash flows and appropriately risk-adjusted discount rates. Conversely, in some cases observable inputs may require significant adjustments. For example, in cases where the volume and level of trading activity in an asset or liability have
declined significantly, the available prices vary significantly over time or among market participants, or the prices are not current, the observable inputs may not be relevant and could require adjustment. 
Valuation techniques and models used to measure the fair value of financial instruments on a recurring basis are reviewed and validated
by the Company on at least a quarterly basis. The Company uses a variety of methods to validate the overall reasonableness of the fair values obtained from external sources, including evaluating pricing service inputs and methodologies, using
exception 
  77 


Table of Contents

reports based on analytical criteria, comparing prices obtained to prices received from other pricing sources, and reviewing the reasonableness of prices based on Company knowledge of market
liquidity and other market-related conditions.  The Company believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with
those of other market participants. However, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Imprecision in
estimating unobservable market inputs can affect the amount of income or loss recorded for a particular position.  Additional
information regarding fair value measurements is included in Note 20 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  As a continuing part of our financial strategy and in accordance with our asset/liability management policies, we attempt to manage the impact of fluctuations in market interest rates on our net interest
income. This effort entails providing a reasonable balance between interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and maintenance of yield. Our asset/liability management policies also authorize us to enter into derivative instruments as a tool to
further manage the interest rate exposure of the Bank’s balance sheet. We may manage interest rate risk by structuring the asset and liability characteristics of our balance sheet and/or by executing derivatives designated as accounting hedges.
 Interest rate changes do not affect all categories of assets and liabilities equally or simultaneously. There are other
factors that are difficult to measure and predict that would influence the effect of interest rate fluctuations on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  In July 2011, we initiated the use of interest rate derivatives as part of our asset liability management strategy to hedge interest rate risk in our primarily floating-rate loan portfolio and, depending
on market conditions; we may expand this program and enter into additional interest rate swaps.  The majority of our
interest-earning assets are floating rate instruments. To manage the interest rate risk of our balance sheet, we have the ability to use a combination of financial instruments, including medium-term and short-term financings, variable-rate debt
instruments, fixed rate loans and securities and interest rate swaps. Approximately 61% of the total loan portfolio is indexed to LIBOR, 21% of the total loan portfolio is indexed to the prime rate, and another 8% of the total loan portfolio
otherwise adjusts with other reference interest rates. Of the $5.6 billion in loans maturity after one year with a floating interest rate, 25% are subject to interest rate floors under the terms of the loan agreements, the majority of which are in
effect at December 31, 2011 and are reflected in the interest sensitivity analysis below. Changes in market rates and the shape of the yield curve may give us the opportunity to make changes to our investment securities portfolio as part of our
asset/liability management strategy.  We use a simulation model to estimate the potential impact of various interest rate
changes on our income statement and our interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability portfolios, assuming the size and nature of these portfolios remain constant throughout the twelve month measurement period. The simulation assumes that
assets and liabilities accrue interest on their current pricing basis. Assets and liabilities then re-price based on current terms and assuming instantaneous parallel shifts in the applicable yield curves and remain at that new interest rate through
the end of the measurement period. The model attempts to illustrate the potential change in annual net interest income if the foregoing occurred. The following table shows the estimated impact of an immediate change in interest rates as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Analysis of Net Interest Income Sensitivity 
(Dollars in thousands)   
























 
  
Immediate Change in Rates
 

 
  
-50
 
  
+50
 
  
       +100       
 
  
+200
 
  
+300
 

 December 31, 2011:
  




 Dollar change
  
 $
  (13,906)    
  
  
 $
     16,526   
  
  
 $
   33,347  
  
  
 $
      67,447  
  
  
 $
  104,766   
  

 Percent change
  
 
-3.6%    
  
  
 
4.3%   
  
  
 
8.7%  
  
  
 
17.6%  
  
  
 
27.4%   
  

 December 31, 2010:
  



  



  



  



  




 Dollar change
  
 $
(8,800)    
  
  
 $
12,245   
  
  
 $
25,144  
  
  
 $
53,152  
  
  
 $
84,492   
  

 Percent change
  
 
-2.3%    
  
  
 
3.1%   
  
  
 
6.5%  
  
  
 
13.7%  
  
  
 
21.7%   
  
 The estimated impact to our net interest income over a one year period is reflected in dollar terms and
percentage change. As an example, this table illustrates that if there had been an instantaneous parallel shift in the yield curve of +100 basis points on December 31, 
  78 


Table of Contents

2011, net interest income would increase by $33.3 million, or 8.7%, over a twelve-month period, as compared to a net interest income increase of $25.1 million, or 6.5%, if there had been an
instantaneous parallel shift of +100 basis points at December 31, 2010.  Changes in the effect on net interest income at
December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 are due to changes in the composition and nature of the repricing of interest rate-sensitive assets relative to rate-sensitive liabilities since year end 2010. Interest rate sensitivity
increased during 2011 due to several factors, primarily liability compositional changes. Non-interest sensitive deposits increased while rate sensitive deposits, such as money market deposits, decreased. Rate-sensitive liabilities mitigate
rate-sensitive assets. Accordingly, as rate-sensitive liabilities decrease, less asset sensitivity is offset by the liabilities as a whole. Taken together, the asset composition was more rate sensitive than in the prior year, and less of the asset
sensitivity was mitigated by rate-sensitive liabilities, producing an overall increase in asset sensitivity. This effect was partially mitigated by the hedging program established in 2011. 
The preceding sensitivity analysis is based on numerous assumptions including: the nature and timing of interest rate levels including
the shape of the yield curve, prepayments on loans and securities, pricing decisions on loans and deposits, reinvestment/replacement of asset and liability cash flows and others. While our assumptions are developed based upon current economic and
local market conditions, we cannot make any assurances as to the predictive nature of these assumptions including how client preferences or competitor influences might change.  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of PrivateBancorp, Inc.:  We have audited
the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of PrivateBancorp, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of PrivateBancorp, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), PrivateBancorp, Inc’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control
– Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 27, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
/S/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP  Chicago, Illinois  February 27, 2012 
  79 


Table of Contents
PRIVATEBANCORP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  (Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Assets
  



  




 Cash and due from banks
  
 $
156,131 
  
  
 $
112,772 
  

 Federal funds sold and other short-term investments
  
 
205,610 
  
  
 
541,316 
  

 Loans held for sale
  
 
32,049 
  
  
 
30,758 
  

 Securities available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
1,783,465 
  
  
 
1,881,786 
  

 Securities held-to-maturity, at amortized cost (fair value: $493.2 million – 2011)
  
 
490,143 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Non-marketable equity investments (FHLB stock: $40.7 million – 2011; $20.7 million – 2010)
  
 
43,604 
  
  
 
23,537 
  

 Loans – excluding covered assets, net of unearned fees
  
 
9,008,561 
  
  
 
9,114,357 
  

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
(191,594)
  
  
 
(222,821)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Loans, net of allowance for loan losses and unearned fees
  
 
8,816,967 
  
  
 
8,891,536 
  

 Covered assets
  
 
306,807 
  
  
 
397,210 
  

 Allowance for covered loan losses
  
 
(25,939)
  
  
 
(15,334)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Covered assets, net of allowance for covered loan losses
  
 
280,868 
  
  
 
381,876 
  

 Other real estate owned, excluding covered assets
  
 
125,729 
  
  
 
88,728 
  

 Premises, furniture, and equipment, net
  
 
38,633 
  
  
 
40,975 
  

 Accrued interest receivable
  
 
35,732 
  
  
 
33,854 
  

 Investment in bank owned life insurance
  
 
50,966 
  
  
 
49,408 
  

 Goodwill
  
 
94,571 
  
  
 
94,621 
  

 Other intangible assets
  
 
15,353 
  
  
 
16,840 
  

 Capital markets derivative assets
  
 
101,676 
  
  
 
100,250 
  

 Other assets
  
 
145,373 
  
  
 
177,364 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
 $
    12,416,870 
  
  
 $
           12,465,621 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities
  




 Demand deposits:
  



  




 Noninterest-bearing
  
$
3,244,307 
  
  
$
2,253,661 
  

 Interest-bearing
  
 
595,238 
  
  
 
616,761 
  

 Savings deposits and money market accounts
  
 
4,378,220 
  
  
 
4,821,823 
  

 Brokered deposits
  
 
815,951 
  
  
 
1,450,827 
  

 Time deposits
  
 
1,359,138 
  
  
 
1,392,357 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deposits
  
 
10,392,854 
  
  
 
10,535,429 
  

 Short-term borrowings
  
 
156,000 
  
  
 
118,561 
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
379,793 
  
  
 
414,793 
  

 Accrued interest payable
  
 
5,567 
  
  
 
5,968 
  

 Capital markets derivative liabilities
  
 
104,140 
  
  
 
102,018 
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
81,764 
  
  
 
60,942 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
11,120,118 
  
  
 
11,237,711 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Equity
  



  




 Preferred stock – Series B
  
 
240,403 
  
  
 
238,903 
  

 Common stock:
  



  




 Voting
  
 
67,947 
  
  
 
67,436 
  

 Nonvoting
  
 
3,536 
  
  
 
3,536 
  

 Treasury stock
  
 
(21,454)
  
  
 
(20,054)
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
968,787 
  
  
 
954,977 
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(9,164)
  
  
 
(36,999)
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax
  
 
46,697 
  
  
 
20,078 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
1,296,752 
  
  
 
1,227,877 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
- 
  
  
 
33 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total equity
  
 
1,296,752 
  
  
 
1,227,910 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
 $
12,416,870 
  
  
 $
12,465,621 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 






   See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 


  80 


Table of Contents
PRIVATEBANCORP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION – (Continued) 
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)   




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Preferred  
Stock-Series B  
 
  
Common Stock
 
  
Preferred  
Stock-Series B  
 
  
Common Stock
 

 
  
  
        Voting        

 
  
      Nonvoting      
 
  
  
        Voting        

 
  
      Nonvoting      
 

 Per Share Data
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Par value
  
 
None 
  
  
 
None
  
  
 
None
  
  
 
None 
  
  
 
None
  
  
 
None
  

 Liquidation value
  
 $
1,000 
  
  
 
n/a
  
  
 
n/a
  
  
$
1,000 
  
  
 
n/a
  
  
 
n/a
  

 Stated value
  
 
None 
  
  
$
1.00
  
  
$
1.00
  
  
 
None 
  
  
$
1.00
  
  
$
1.00
  

 Share Balances
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Shares authorized
  
 
1,000 
  
  
 
174,000
  
  
 
5,000
  
  
 
1,000 
  
  
 
174,000
  
  
 
5,000
  

 Shares issued
  
 
244 
  
  
 
68,978
  
  
 
3,536
  
  
 
244 
  
  
 
68,443
  
  
 
3,536
  

 Shares outstanding
  
 
244 
  
  
 
68,209
  
  
 
3,536
  
  
 
244 
  
  
 
67,791
  
  
 
3,536
  

 Treasury shares
  
 
- 
  
  
 
769
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
652
  
  
 
-
  
 n/a  Not applicable   
  See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements. 
  81 


Table of Contents
PRIVATEBANCORP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)   
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Interest Income
  



  



  




 Loans, including fees
  
  $
413,109    
  
  
  $
434,884   
  
  
  $
411,830   
  

 Federal funds sold and other short-term investments
  
 
1,181    
  
  
 
1,950   
  
  
 
1,112   
  

 Securities:
  



  



  




 Taxable
  
 
61,417    
  
  
 
64,316   
  
  
 
58,663   
  

 Exempt from Federal income taxes
  
 
5,439    
  
  
 
6,775   
  
  
 
7,107   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest income
  
 
481,146    
  
  
 
507,925   
  
  
 
478,712   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interest Expense
  



  



  




 Interest-bearing demand deposits
  
 
2,439    
  
  
 
3,148   
  
  
 
2,646   
  

 Savings deposits and money market accounts
  
 
22,957    
  
  
 
34,431   
  
  
 
29,635   
  

 Brokered and time deposits
  
 
24,676    
  
  
 
36,458   
  
  
 
79,335   
  

 Short-term borrowings
  
 
2,011    
  
  
 
5,088   
  
  
 
8,094   
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
21,936    
  
  
 
27,843   
  
  
 
34,018   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest expense
  
 
74,019    
  
  
 
106,968   
  
  
 
153,728   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest income
  
 
407,127    
  
  
 
400,957   
  
  
 
324,984   
  

 Provision for loan and covered loan losses
  
 
132,897    
  
  
 
194,541   
  
  
 
199,419   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest income after provision for loan and covered loan losses
  
 
274,230    
  
  
 
206,416   
  
  
 
125,565   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Non-interest Income
  



  



  




 Trust and Investments
  
 
17,826    
  
  
 
18,140   
  
  
 
15,459   
  

 Mortgage banking
  
 
6,703    
  
  
 
10,187   
  
  
 
8,930   
  

 Capital markets products
  
 
19,341    
  
  
 
14,286   
  
  
 
17,150   
  

 Treasury management
  
 
19,923    
  
  
 
16,920   
  
  
 
10,148   
  

 Loan and credit related fees
  
 
22,207    
  
  
 
16,526   
  
  
 
12,888   
  

 Other income, service charges and fees
  
 
6,476    
  
  
 
5,005   
  
  
 
499   
  

 Net securities gains
  
 
5,771    
  
  
 
12,182   
  
  
 
7,381   
  

 Early extinguishment of debt
  
 
-    
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
(985)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-interest income
  
 
98,247    
  
  
 
93,246   
  
  
 
71,470   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Non-interest Expense
  



  



  




 Salaries and employee benefits
  
 
156,763    
  
  
 
149,863   
  
  
 
123,653   
  

 Net occupancy expense
  
 
29,986    
  
  
 
29,935   
  
  
 
26,170   
  

 Technology and related costs
  
 
11,388    
  
  
 
10,224   
  
  
 
10,599   
  

 Marketing
  
 
8,911    
  
  
 
8,501   
  
  
 
9,843   
  

 Professional services
  
 
9,206    
  
  
 
12,931   
  
  
 
16,327   
  

 Outsourced servicing costs
  
 
8,001    
  
  
 
7,807   
  
  
 
4,319   
  

 Net foreclosed property expenses
  
 
27,782    
  
  
 
15,192   
  
  
 
5,675   
  

 Postage, telephone, and delivery
  
 
3,716    
  
  
 
3,659   
  
  
 
3,060   
  

 Insurance
  
 
21,287    
  
  
 
26,534   
  
  
 
22,607   
  

 Loan and collection expense
  
 
13,571    
  
  
 
14,623   
  
  
 
9,617   
  

 Other expenses
  
 
11,666    
  
  
 
20,329   
  
  
 
15,545   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-interest expense
  
 
302,277    
  
  
 
299,598   
  
  
 
247,415   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
70,200    
  
  
 
64   
  
  
 
(50,380)  
  

 Income tax provision (benefit)
  
 
25,660    
  
  
 
(1,737)  
  
  
 
(20,564)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
44,540    
  
  
 
1,801   
  
  
 
(29,816)  
  

 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
170    
  
  
 
284   
  
  
 
247   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling interests
  
 
44,370    
  
  
 
1,517   
  
  
 
(30,063)  
  

 Preferred stock dividends and discount accretion
  
 
13,690    
  
  
 
13,607   
  
  
 
12,443   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders
  
  $
          30,680    
  
  
  $
          (12,090)  
  
  
  $
         (42,506)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Per Common Share Data
  



  



  




 Basic
  
  $
0.43    
  
  
  $
(0.17)  
  
  
  $
(0.95)  
  

 Diluted
  
  $
0.43    
  
  
  $
(0.17)  
  
  
  $
(0.95)  
  

 Common dividends per share
  
  $
0.04    
  
  
  $
0.04   
  
  
  $
0.04   
  

 Weighted-average common shares outstanding
  
 
70,449    
  
  
 
70,024   
  
  
 
44,516   
  

 Weighted-average diluted common shares outstanding
  
 
70,642    
  
  
 
70,024   
  
  
 
44,516   
  
    
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  82 


Table of Contents
PRIVATEBANCORP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)   




































 
  
PreferredStock
 
  
CommonStock
 
  
TreasuryStock
 
  
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
  
RetainedEarnings(AccumulatedDeficit)
 
  
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome
 
  
Non-controllingInterests
 
  
Total
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
 $
58,070  
  
  
$
32,468 
  
  
$
(17,285)
  
  
$
482,347 
  
  
$
22,365 
  
  
$
27,568 
  
  
 $
33  
  
  
$
605,566 
  

 Comprehensive Income:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Net (loss) income
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(30,063)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
247  
  
  
 
(29,816)
  

 Other comprehensive income (1)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
328 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
328 
  


  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive loss
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  
 
(29,488)
  

 Cash dividends:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Common stock ($0.04 per share)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1,951)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(1,951)
  

 Preferred stock
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(11,214)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(11,214)
  

 Issuance of preferred stock
  
 
236,257  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
236,257 
  

 Conversion of preferred stock to common stock
  
 
(58,070) 
  
  
 
1,951 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
56,116 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(3)
  

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
-  
  
  
 
35,674 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
373,981 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
409,655 
  

 Issuance of common stock warrants
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
7,558 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
7,558 
  

 Accretion of preferred stock discount
  
 
1,230  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1,230)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  

 Common stock issued under benefit plans
  
 
-  
  
  
 
351 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
775 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
1,126 
  

 Shortfall tax benefit from share-based compensation
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1,135)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(1,135)
  

 Stock repurchased in connection with benefit plans
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1,204)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(1,204)
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
20,696 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
20,696 
  

 Noncontrolling interests distributions
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(247)
  
  
 
(247)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 $
    237,487  
  
  
$
      70,444 
  
  
$
      (18,489)
  
  
$
    940,338 
  
  
$
      (22,093)
  
  
$
  27,896 
  
  
 $
      33  
  
  
$
    1,235,616 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive Income:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Net income
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,517 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
284  
  
  
 
1,801 
  

 Other comprehensive loss (1)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(7,818)
  
  



  
 
(7,818)
  


  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive loss
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(6,017)
  

 Cash dividends:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Common stock ($0.04 per share)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(2,816)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(2,816)
  

 Preferred stock
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(12,191)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(12,191)
  

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(178)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(178)
  

 Accretion of preferred stock discount
  
 
1,416  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1,416)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  

 Common stock issued under benefit plans
  
 
-  
  
  
 
521 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,286 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
1,807 
  

 Shortfall tax benefit from share-based compensation
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(3,564)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(3,564)
  

 Stock repurchased in connection with benefit plans
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1,565)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(1,565)
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  
 
-  
  
  
 
7 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
17,095 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
17,102 
  

 Noncontrolling interests distributions
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(284)
  
  
 
(284)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 $
238,903  
  
  
$
70,972 
  
  
$
(20,054)
  
  
$
954,977 
  
  
$
(36,999)
  
  
$
20,078 
  
  
 $
33  
  
  
$
1,227,910 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




  (1)    Net of taxes and
reclassification adjustments.    See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

  83 


Table of Contents
PRIVATEBANCORP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY – (Continued) 
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)   




































 
  
  Preferred  
Stock
 
  
  Common  Stock
 
  
  Treasury  Stock
 
  
 Additional Paid-inCapital
 
  
RetainedEarnings(AccumulatedDeficit)
 
  
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome
 
  
Non- controlling Interests
 
  
        Total        

 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 $
238,903  
  
  
 $
70,972  
  
  
$
(20,054)
  
  
$
954,977 
  
  
 $
(36,999)
  
  
$
20,078  
  
  
$
33 
  
  
$
1,227,910 
  

 Comprehensive Income:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Net income
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
44,370 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
170 
  
  
 
44,540 
  

 Other comprehensive income (1)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
26,619  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
26,619 
  


  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
71,159 
  

 Cash dividends:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Common stock ($0.04 per share)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(2,844)
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(2,844)
  

 Preferred stock
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(12,191)
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(12,191)
  

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
31 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
31 
  

 Accretion of preferred stock discount
  
 
1,500  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1,500)
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Common stock issued under benefit plans
  
 
-  
  
  
 
457  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
682 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,139 
  

 Shortfall tax benefit from share-based compensation
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(2,638)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
(2,638)
  

 Stock repurchased in connection with benefit plans
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(1,400)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1,400)
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  
 
-  
  
  
 
54  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
15,702 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
15,756 
  

 Noncontrolling interests activities
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
33 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(203)
  
  
 
(170)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 $
  240,403  
  
  
 $
   71,483  
  
  
$
(21,454)
  
  
$
968,787 
  
  
 $
(9,164)
  
  
$
46,697  
  
  
$
- 
  
  
$
1,296,752 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 (1)    Net of taxes and reclassification
adjustments.  
 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  84 


Table of Contents
PRIVATEBANCORP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Operating Activities
  



  



  




 Net income (loss)
  
 $
44,370 
  
  
 $
1,517 
  
  
 $
(30,063)
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



  



  




 Provision for loan and covered loan losses
  
 
132,897 
  
  
 
194,541 
  
  
 
199,419 
  

 Depreciation of premises, furniture, and equipment
  
 
8,777 
  
  
 
7,851 
  
  
 
6,447 
  

 Net amortization of premium on securities
  
 
13,011 
  
  
 
7,648 
  
  
 
1,487 
  

 Net gains on securities
  
 
(5,771)
  
  
 
(12,182)
  
  
 
(7,381)
  

 Net losses (gains) on sale of other real estate owned
  
 
9,078 
  
  
 
1,352 
  
  
 
(936)
  

 Net accretion of discount on covered assets
  
 
(2,727)
  
  
 
(18,844)
  
  
 
(14,497)
  

 Bank owned life insurance income
  
 
(1,558)
  
  
 
(1,742)
  
  
 
(1,728)
  

 Net increase in deferred loan fees
  
 
5,724 
  
  
 
4,145 
  
  
 
8,589 
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  
 
15,953 
  
  
 
17,501 
  
  
 
20,596 
  

 Provision for deferred income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
1,725 
  
  
 
(17,227)
  
  
 
(64,810)
  

 Amortization of other intangibles
  
 
1,487 
  
  
 
1,645 
  
  
 
1,737 
  

 Change in loans held for sale
  
 
(1,291)
  
  
 
(2,395)
  
  
 
(3,854)
  

 Fair market value adjustments on derivatives
  
 
696 
  
  
 
1,350 
  
  
 
(1,080)
  

 Net (increase) decrease in accrued interest receivable
  
 
(1,878)
  
  
 
1,708 
  
  
 
(1,280)
  

 Net decrease in accrued interest payable
  
 
(401)
  
  
 
(3,705)
  
  
 
(27,950)
  

 Net decrease (increase) in other assets
  
 
30,134 
  
  
 
40,390 
  
  
 
(17,070)
  

 Net increase (decrease) in other liabilities
  
 
20,098 
  
  
 
(15,378)
  
  
 
19,002 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
270,324 
  
  
 
208,175 
  
  
 
86,628 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Investing Activities
  



  



  




 Available-for-sale securities and non-marketable equity investments:
  



  



  




 Proceeds from maturities, repayments, and calls
  
 
399,111 
  
  
 
423,304 
  
  
 
363,380 
  

 Proceeds from sales
  
 
295,870 
  
  
 
432,895 
  
  
 
265,778 
  

 Purchases
  
 
(581,884)
  
  
 
(1,178,673)
  
  
 
(592,659)
  

 Held-to-maturity securities:
  



  



  




 Proceeds from maturities, repayments, and calls
  
 
7,338 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Purchases
  
 
(497,945)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Net increase in loans
  
 
(192,505)
  
  
 
(393,615)
  
  
 
(1,163,725)
  

 Cash and cash equivalents received in FDIC-assisted acquisition
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
46,460 
  

 Net decrease in covered assets
  
 
101,393 
  
  
 
133,721 
  
  
 
65,540 
  

 Proceeds from sale of other real estate owned
  
 
69,898 
  
  
 
85,809 
  
  
 
35,720 
  

 Net purchases of premises, furniture, and equipment
  
 
(6,435)
  
  
 
(7,482)
  
  
 
(13,502)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(405,159)
  
  
 
(504,041)
  
  
 
(993,008)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Financing Activities
  



  



  




 Net (decrease) increase in deposit accounts
  
 
(142,575)
  
  
 
643,515 
  
  
 
1,125,691 
  

 Net decrease in short-term borrowings
  
 
(941)
  
  
 
(3,034)
  
  
 
(433,080)
  

 Proceeds on FHLB advances
  
 
171,000 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
100,000 
  

 Repayment of FHLB advances
  
 
(167,000)
  
  
 
(211,000)
  
  
 
(218,000)
  

 Proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock and common stock warrant
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
243,815 
  

 Proceeds (payments for) from the issuance of common stock
  
 
31 
  
  
 
(178)
  
  
 
409,655 
  

 Stock repurchased in connection with benefit plans
  
 
(1,400)
  
  
 
(1,565)
  
  
 
(1,204)
  

 Cash dividends paid
  
 
(15,128)
  
  
 
(15,122)
  
  
 
(11,628)
  

 Exercise of stock options and restricted share activity
  
 
1,139 
  
  
 
1,807 
  
  
 
1,126 
  

 Shortfall tax benefit from exercise of stock options and release of restricted share activity
  
 
(2,638)
  
  
 
(3,564)
  
  
 
(1,135)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
  
 
(157,512)
  
  
 
410,859 
  
  
 
1,215,240 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(292,347)
  
  
 
114,993 
  
  
 
308,860 
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
654,088 
  
  
 
539,095 
  
  
 
230,235 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
 $
       361,741 
  
  
 $
       654,088 
  
  
 $
       539,095 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information:
  



  



  




 Cash paid for interest
  
 $
74,420 
  
  
 $
110,673 
  
  
 $
181,678 
  

 Cash paid for income taxes
  
 
25,616 
  
  
 
8,067 
  
  
 
8,930 
  

 Non-cash transfers of loans to other real estate
  
 
131,396 
  
  
 
140,607 
  
  
 
55,469 
  

  
 

   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
  

  85 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 


1.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  Nature of Operations – PrivateBancorp, Inc. (“PrivateBancorp” or the “Company”) was incorporated in Delaware in 1989 and became a holding company registered under the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The PrivateBank and Trust Company (“PrivateBank-Chicago,” “PrivateBank,” or the “Bank”), the sole banking subsidiary of PrivateBancorp, was opened in Chicago in 1991. The Company
completed its initial public offering in June of 1999. The Bank provides customized business and personal financial services to middle market companies and business owners, executives, entrepreneurs and families in seven geographic markets in the
Midwest, as well as Denver and Atlanta. The majority of the Bank’s business is conducted in the greater Chicago market. 
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation – The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
accounts and results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company consolidates subsidiaries in which it holds, directly or indirectly, a controlling financial interest. In consolidation, all significant intercompany accounts and
transactions are eliminated. Investments in unconsolidated entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting when the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financing decisions. Investments that
do not meet the criteria for equity method accounting are accounted for using the cost method of accounting. Assets held in a fiduciary or agency capacity are not assets of the Company or its subsidiaries and, accordingly, are not included in the
consolidated financial statements.  The accounting and reporting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries conform to U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and general practice within the banking industry. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation. We use the accrual basis
of accounting for financial reporting purposes.  In preparing the consolidated financial statements, we have considered the
impact of events occurring subsequent to December 31, 2011 for potential recognition or disclosure in this annual report on Form 10-K.  Business Combinations – Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, assets and liabilities of the business acquired are
recorded at their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition, with any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired recorded as goodwill. Results of operations of
the acquired business are included in the Consolidated Statements of Income from the effective date of acquisition.  Use of
Estimates – The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following is a summary of the significant accounting policies adhered to in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents – For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, management has defined cash and cash
equivalents to include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold, and other short-term investments. Generally, federal funds are sold for one-day periods, but not longer than 30 days. Short-term investments generally mature in less than 30 days.
All cash and cash equivalents have maturities of three months or less.  Investment Securities – At the time of
purchase, debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity
securities are carried at amortized cost. Securities are classified as available-for-sale when management has the intent and ability to hold such securities for an indefinite period of time, but not necessarily to maturity. Any decision to sell
available-for-sale securities would be based on various factors, including, but not limited to asset/liability management strategies, changes in interest rates or prepayment risks, liquidity needs, or regulatory capital considerations.
Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of related deferred income taxes, recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”). 
The historical cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts over the estimated life of the
security, using the level-yield method. Amortization of premium and accretion of discount are included in interest income from the related security.  Purchases and sales of securities are recognized on a trade date basis. Realized securities gains or losses are reported in net securities gains (losses) in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The cost
of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. On 
  86 


Table of Contents

a quarterly basis, we make an assessment to determine whether there have been any events or circumstances to indicate that a security for which there is an unrealized loss is impaired on an
other-than-temporary (“OTTI”) basis. This determination requires significant judgment. OTTI is considered to have occurred (1) if management intends to sell the security; (2) if it is more likely than not we will be required to
sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis; or (3) if the present value of the expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis. For debt securities that we do not expect to sell or for which
it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell prior to recovery, the OTTI is separated into credit and noncredit components. The credit-related OTTI, represented by the expected loss in principal, is recognized in
non-interest income, while noncredit-related OTTI is recognized in OCI. Noncredit-related OTTI results from other factors, including increased liquidity spreads and changes in risk-free interest rates. All of the OTTI is recognized in earnings for
securities we expect to sell. Presentation of OTTI is made in the income statement on a gross basis with a reduction for the amount of OTTI recognized in OCI. Once an OTTI is recorded, future significant increases in expected cash flows are treated
as prospective yield adjustments.  Non-marketable equity securities are carried at cost. Impairment testing on these
investments is based on applicable accounting guidance and the cost basis is reduced when impairment is deemed to be other-than-temporary.  Loans Held for Sale – Loans held for sale (“LHFS”) represent mortgage loan originations intended to be sold in the secondary market and other loans that management has an active plan
to sell. LHFS are carried at the lower of cost or fair value as determined on an individual asset basis or carried at fair value where the Company has elected fair value accounting. Beginning on August 1, 2011, the Company elected to measure
residential mortgage loans originated as held for sale under the fair value option on a prospective basis. Increases or decreases in the fair value of these LHFS are recognized in other income, service charges and fees in the Consolidated Statements
of Income. Mortgage loan origination costs related to LHFS which the Company accounts for under the fair value option are recognized in noninterest expense as incurred. Held for investment loans that have been transferred to LHFS are carried at the
lower of cost or fair value. For these LHFS, any decreases in value below cost are recognized in mortgage banking revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income and increases in fair value above cost are not recognized until the loans are sold.
The credit component of any write down upon transfer to LHFS is reflected in charge-offs to the allowance for loan losses. Loan origination costs for LHFS carried at the lower of cost or fair value are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of
the loans and recognized as a reduction of mortgage banking revenue upon the sale of such loans.  Fair value is determined
based on quoted market rates and our judgment of relevant market conditions. Gains and losses on the disposition of loans held for sale are determined on the specific identification method. Mortgage loans sold in the secondary market are sold
without retaining servicing rights.  Originated Loans Held for Investment – Originated loans held for investment
are carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned income, deferred loan fees or costs, and any direct principal charge-offs. Interest income on loans is accrued based on principal amounts outstanding. Loan origination fees, fees for
commitments that are expected to be exercised and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred and the net amount is amortized over the life of the related loan or commitment period as a yield adjustment. Other credit-related fees are
recognized as fee income when earned.  Delinquent and Nonaccrual Loans – Loans are considered past due or
delinquent if the required principal and interest payments have not been received as of the date such payment is due. Generally, loans (including impaired loans) are placed on nonaccrual status: (a) when either principal or interest payments
are 90 days or more past due based on contractual terms; or (b) when an individual analysis of a borrower’s creditworthiness indicates a loan should be placed on nonaccrual status rather than waiting until the loan becomes 90 days past
due. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, accrued and unpaid interest credited to income is reversed and accretion of net deferred loan fees ceases. Subsequent receipts on nonaccrual loans are recorded as a reduction of principal, and
interest income may only be recorded on a cash basis after recovery of principal is reasonably assured. Nonaccrual loans are returned to accrual status when all delinquent principal and interest payments become current in accordance with the terms
of the loan agreement and when the financial position of the borrower and other relevant factors indicate there is no longer doubt as to such collectability.  Impaired Loans – Impaired loans consist of nonaccrual loans (which include nonaccrual troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”)) and loans classified as accruing TDRs. A loan is
considered impaired when, based on current information and events, management believes that it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due (both principal and interest) according to the original contractual terms of the loan
agreement. Once a loan is determined to be impaired, the amount of impairment is measured based on the loan’s observable fair value, the fair value of the underlying collateral less selling costs if the loan is collateral-dependent, or the
present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate.  If the measurement of the
impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, impairment is recognized by creating a specific valuation reserve as a component of the allowance for loan losses. Impaired loans exceeding $500,000 are evaluated individually, while
smaller loans are evaluated as pools using historical loss experience, as well as management’s loss expectations, for the respective asset class and product type. 
  87 


Table of Contents
Impaired loans with specific reserves are reviewed quarterly for any changes that would
affect the specific reserve. Any impaired loan for which a determination has been made that the economic value is permanently reduced is charged-off against the allowance for loan losses to reflect its current economic value in the period in which
the determination has been made.  At the time a collateral-dependent loan is initially determined to be impaired, we review
the existing collateral appraisal. If the most recent appraisal is greater than a year old, a new appraisal is obtained on the underlying collateral. Appraisals for loans in excess of $500,000 are updated with a new independent appraisal at least
annually and are formally reviewed by our internal appraisal department upon receipt of a new appraisal as well as at the six-month interval between the independent appraisals. All impaired loans and their related reserves are reviewed and updated
each quarter. If during the course of the six-month review period there is evidence supporting a meaningful decline in the value of collateral, a new appraisal is required to support the value of the impaired loan. With an immaterial number of
exceptions, all appraisals and internal reviews are current under this methodology at December 31, 2011. 
Restructured Loans – Loans may be modified in the normal course of business for competitive reasons or to
strengthen the Company’s position. Loan modifications and restructurings may also occur when the borrower experiences financial difficulty and needs temporary or permanent relief from the original contractual terms of the loan. These
modifications are structured on a loan-by-loan basis, and depending on the circumstances, may include extensions of maturity dates, rate reductions, forgiveness of principal, or other concessions. The Company may also utilize a multiple note
structure as a workout alternative for certain loans. The multiple note structure typically bifurcates a troubled loan into two separate notes, where the first note is reasonably assured of repayment and performance according to the modified terms,
and the portion of the troubled loan that is not reasonably assured of repayment is charged-off. Loans that have been modified to accommodate a borrower who is experiencing financial difficulties, and for which the Company has granted a concession
that it would not otherwise consider, are considered a TDR.  We consider many factors in determining whether to agree to a
loan modification involving concessions, and seek a solution that will both minimize potential loss to the Company and attempt to help the borrower. We evaluate our borrowers’ current and forecasted future cash flows, their ability and
willingness to make current contractual or proposed modified payments, the value of the underlying collateral (if applicable), the possibility of obtaining additional security or guarantees, and the potential costs related to a repossession or
foreclosure and the subsequent sale of the collateral.  Restructured loans can involve loans remaining on nonaccrual, moving
to nonaccrual, or continuing on accrual status, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the borrower. Generally, a nonaccrual loan that is restructured remains on nonaccrual for a period of at least six months to ensure that the
borrower performs in accordance with the restructured terms including consistent and timely loan payments. However, the borrower’s performance prior to the restructuring or other significant events at the time of the restructuring may be
considered in assessing whether the borrower can meet the new terms and may result in the loan being returned to accrual status after a shorter performance period or concurrent with the restructuring. In such situations, the loan will be reported as
a “restructured loan accruing interest.” If the borrower’s performance under the new terms is not reasonably assured, the loan remains classified as a nonaccrual loan. 
The allowance for loan losses on restructured loans is determined by discounting the restructured cash flows by the original effective
rate, or if collateral-dependent, by obtaining an appraisal.  Allowance for Loan Losses – We maintain an allowance
for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is assessed quarterly and represents an accounting estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at
each balance sheet date based on a review of available and relevant information at that time. The allowance consists of provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships that are individually
evaluated for impairment (“the specific component”), as well as probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio that are not specifically identified (“the general allocated component”), which is determined using a methodology that
is a function of quantitative and qualitative factors applied to segments of our loan portfolio as well as management’s judgment.  The specific component relates to impaired loans. Impaired loans consist of nonaccrual loans (which include nonaccrual TDRs) and loans classified as accruing TDRs. See “Impaired Loans” section
of this Note 1 for detailed discussion of the specific component of the allowance for loan losses.  To determine the general
allocated component of the allowance for loan losses, we segregate loans by originating line of business and vintage (“transformational” and “legacy”) for reserve purposes because of observable similarities in the performance
experience of loans underwritten by these business units. In general, loans originated by the business units that existed prior to the strategic changes of the Company in 2007 are considered “legacy” loans. Loans originated by a business
unit that was established in connection with or following the strategic business transformation plan are considered “transformational” loans. Renewals or restructurings of legacy loans may continue to be evaluated as legacy loans depending
on the structure or defining characteristics of the new transaction. The 
  88 


Table of Contents

Company has implemented a line of business model that has reorganized the legacy business units so that after 2009, all new loan originations are considered transformational. 
The methodology produces an estimated range of potential loss exposure for the product types within each originating line of business. We
consider the appropriate balance of the general allocated component of the reserve within these ranges based on a variety of internal and external quantitative and qualitative factors to reflect data or timeframes not captured by the basic allowance
framework as well as market and economic data and management judgment. In certain instances, these additional factors and judgments may lead to management’s conclusion that the appropriate level of the reserve is outside the range determined
through the basic allowance framework.  The product segments we evaluate in the general reserve methodology are commercial
loans, commercial real estate loans, constructions loans and consumer loans (which include personal loans, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit). Our commercial loan portfolio includes lines of credit to businesses, term loans
and letters of credit. Certain non-residential owner-occupied commercial real estate loans are also included in our commercial loan portfolio where the cash flows from the owner’s business serve as the primary source of loan repayment.
Commercial loans contain risks unique to the business and market of each borrower and the repayment is dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower.  Commercial real estate loans are comprised of loans secured by various types of collateral including 1-4 family non-owner occupied housing units located primarily in our target market areas, multi-family
real estate, office buildings, warehouses, retail space, mixed use buildings, and vacant land, the bulk of which is held for long-term investment or development. Risks inherent in real estate lending are related to the market value of the property
taken as collateral, the underlying cash flows and the general economic condition of the market in which the collateral is located. Repayment is generally dependent on the ability of the borrower to attract tenants at rental rates that provide for
debt service. Repayment of commercial real estate loans is also somewhat dependent on long term financing options available to the borrower.  Our construction loan portfolio consists of single-family residential properties, multi-family properties, and commercial projects, and includes both investment properties and properties that will be
owner-occupied. Risks inherent in construction lending are similar to those in commercial real estate lending. Additional risks include the cost and time frame of constructing or improving a property, the borrower’s inability to use funds
generated by a project to service a loan until a project is completed, the more pronounced risk to interest rate movements and the real estate market that these borrowers face while a project is being completed or seeking a buyer and the
availability of permanent financing. Because of the nature of construction loans, as a product segment, these loans have the highest inherent risk in our portfolio and are often the highest yielding loans in our portfolio. 
Consumer loans are a smaller portion of our overall portfolio and consist of residential home mortgages, home equity lines of credit and
personal loans. The risk issues associated with these products are closely correlated to the U.S. housing market and the local markets in which the collateral resides and include home price indices, sales volume, unemployment rates, vacancy rates,
foreclosure rates, loan to value ratios, and delinquency rates. Some personal loans may be unsecured.  Determination of the
allowance is inherently subjective, as it requires significant estimates, including the amounts and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on historical loss experience, risk
ratings, product type, and vintage, as well as consideration of current economic trends and portfolio attributes, all of which may be susceptible to significant change.  Credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible are charged-off against the allowance, while recoveries of amounts previously charged-off are credited to the allowance. A provision for loan losses, which is a
charge against earnings, is recorded to bring the allowance for loan losses to a level that, in management’s judgment, is appropriate to absorb probable losses in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. 
Reserve for Unfunded Commitments – We maintain a reserve for unfunded commitments at a level we believe to be sufficient to
absorb estimated probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities. The reserve is included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. The reserve is computed using a methodology similar to that used to determine
the general allocated component of the allowance for loan losses and is based on a model which uses recent commitment utilization patterns at the product level as a method of predicting future usage across the portfolio. Net adjustments to the
reserve for unfunded commitments are included in other non-interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Purchased Loans – Purchased loans acquired through portfolio purchases or in a business combination are accounted for under
specialized accounting guidance when the loans have evidence of credit deterioration at the time of acquisition and for which it is probable that not all contractual payments will be collected (“purchased impaired loans”). Evidence of
credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics such as past due and nonaccrual status, declines in current borrower FICO scores, 
  89 


Table of Contents

geographic concentration and declines in current loan-to-value ratios. U.S. GAAP requires these loans to be recorded at fair value at acquisition date and prohibits the “carrying over”
or the creation of valuation allowances in the initial accounting for loans acquired in a transfer.  The fair values for
purchased impaired loans are determined by discounting cash flows expected to be collected using an observable discount rate for similar instruments with adjustments that management believes a market participant would consider in determining fair
value. We estimate the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition using internal models that incorporate management’s best estimate of current key assumptions, such as default rates, loss severity and payment
speeds.  Under the applicable accounting guidance for purchased impaired loans, any excess of cash flows expected at
acquisition over the estimated fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized into interest income over the remaining life of the loan using the constant effective yield method when there is a reasonable expectation about amount
and timing of such cash flows. The difference between contractually required payments at acquisition and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition is referred to as the non-accretable difference. Subsequent decreases in the expected
cash flows will generally result in an allowance for loan losses. Subsequent increases in cash flows result in a reversal of the provision for losses to the extent of prior charges or an adjustment to the accretable yield. Purchased impaired loans
with common risk characteristics are accounted for on a pool basis as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. Because we are recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, they are all
considered to be performing.  U.S. GAAP requires purchased loans not subject to the specialized accounting guidance
(“purchased non-impaired loans”) to be recorded at fair value at acquisition date and prohibits the “carrying over” or the creation of valuation allowances in the initial accounting for loans acquired in a transfer. Differences
between the purchase price and the unpaid principal balance at the date of acquisition are recorded in interest income over the life of the loan. Decreases in expected cash flows after the purchase date are recognized by recording an allowance for
loan losses.  Covered Assets – Purchased loans and foreclosed loan collateral covered under loss sharing or
similar credit protection agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) are reported separately on the face of the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition inclusive of the fair value of reimbursement cash flows
the Company expects to receive from the FDIC under those agreements. Similarly, the provision for covered loan losses is recorded net of the expected reimbursement from the FDIC. 
Other Real Estate Owned – Other real estate owned (“OREO”) is comprised of property acquired through foreclosure
proceedings or acceptance of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure in partial or total satisfaction of certain loans. Properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan at the time of acquisition or the fair value, determined on the
basis of current appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates of value obtained principally from independent sources, adjusted for estimated selling costs. Any write-downs in the carrying value of a property at the time of acquisition are
charged against the allowance for loan losses. Any subsequent write-downs to reflect current fair value, as well as gains or losses on disposition and revenues or expenses incurred in maintaining such properties are treated as period costs and
reported in non-interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Depreciable Assets – Premises,
furniture and equipment, and leasehold improvements are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense is determined by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized
on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the life of the asset or the lease term. Rates of depreciation are generally based on the following useful lives: buildings, 30-40 years; leasehold improvements, typically 1-16 years; and furniture and
equipment including software, 3-7 years. Gains on dispositions are included in other income, and losses on dispositions are included in other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses
as incurred, while improvements that extend the useful life of assets are capitalized and depreciated over the estimated remaining life.  Long-lived depreciable assets are evaluated periodically for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment exists when the expected
undiscounted future cash flows of a long-lived asset are less than its carrying value. In that event, the Company recognizes a loss equal to the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the asset based on a quoted
market price, if applicable, or a discounted cash flow analysis. Impairment losses are recorded in other non-interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Bank Owned Life Insurance (“BOLI”) – BOLI represents life insurance policies on the lives of certain Company officers for which the Company is the beneficiary. These policies are
recorded as an asset on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition at their cash surrender value, or the amount that could be realized currently. The change in cash surrender value and insurance proceeds received are recorded as BOLI income
in non-interest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets – Goodwill
represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired using the acquisition method of accounting. Other intangible assets represent purchased assets that also lack physical substance but

  90 


Table of Contents

can be distinguished from goodwill because of contractual or other legal rights or because the asset is capable of being sold or exchanged either on its own or in combination with a related
contract, asset, or liability.  Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level at least annually for impairment or more often
if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The Company has determined that its operating segments qualify as reporting units under
U.S. GAAP. In “step one” of the impairment testing process, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the recorded book value. Our step one calculation of each reporting unit’s fair value is based upon a simple average of
two metrics: (1) a primary market approach, which measures fair value based upon trading multiples of independent publicly traded financial institutions of comparable size and character to the reporting units, and (2) an income approach,
which estimates fair value based upon discounted cash flows and terminal value (using the perpetuity growth method). If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not considered impaired and “step two” is
not considered necessary. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the impairment test continues (“step two”) by comparing the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill to the implied fair value of
goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined using the residual approach, where the fair value of a reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business
combination and the fair value of the reporting unit, calculated in step one, is the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied
fair value of goodwill. An impairment charge is recognized to the extent the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill.  Identified intangible assets that have a finite useful life are amortized over that life in a manner that reflects the estimated decline in the economic value of the identified intangible asset and are
subject to impairment testing whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. All of the Company’s other intangible assets have finite lives and are amortized over varying periods not
exceeding 15 years.  Fiduciary Assets and Assets Under Management – Assets held in a fiduciary capacity for
clients are not included in the consolidated financial statements as they are not assets of the Company or its subsidiaries. Fiduciary and asset management fees are generally determined based upon market values of assets under management as of a
specified date during the period and are included as a component of non-interest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Advertising Costs – All advertising costs are expensed in the period they are incurred. 
Loss Contingencies – Loss contingencies, including claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business, are
recorded as liabilities when the likelihood of loss is probable and an amount or range of loss can be reasonably estimated. 
Derivative Instruments – We utilize an overall risk management strategy that incorporates the use of derivative instruments
that are not designated in hedge relationships to reduce interest rate risk, as it relates to mortgage loan commitments and planned sales, and foreign currency volatility. We also use derivative instruments that are not designated in hedge
relationships for client accommodation as we provide derivative risk management solutions for our clients. Additionally, we use interest rate derivatives designated in cash flow hedge relationships to hedge interest rate risk in our loan portfolio
that is comprised primarily of floating rate loans.  All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition, after considering the effects of master netting agreements as allowed under authoritative accounting guidance.  On the date we enter into a derivative contract, we designate the derivative instrument as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or as a freestanding derivative instrument. Derivative instruments
designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or liability attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered to be fair value hedges. Derivative instruments designated in
a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows to be received or paid related to an asset or liability or other types of forecasted transactions are considered to be cash flow hedges. We formally document all
relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction.  For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge and are effective, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item
attributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in current earnings during the period of the change in fair values. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the
derivative instrument is reported as a component of OCI. The unrealized gain or loss is reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. For all hedge relationships, derivative gains and
losses not effective in hedging the change in fair value or expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized immediately in current earnings during the period of change. For derivatives not designated in a hedge relationship, changes in fair
value are reported in current earnings during the period of change. 
  91 


Table of Contents
At the hedge’s inception and at least quarterly thereafter, a formal assessment is
performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged item and whether they are expected to be highly
effective in the future. If a derivative instrument designated as a hedge is terminated or ceases to be highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively and the gain or loss is amortized to earnings over the remaining life of the
hedged asset or liability (fair value hedge) or over the same period(s) that the forecasted hedged transactions impact earnings (cash flow hedge). If the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, the gain or loss is included in
earnings immediately.  See Note 18 for additional information on derivative instruments. 
Income Taxes – The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income tax return. The provision for income taxes
is based on income reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income, rather than amounts reported on our income tax return. 
We recognize a deferred tax asset or liability for the estimated future tax effects attributable to “temporary differences.”
Temporary differences include differences between financial statement income and tax return income that are expected to reverse in future periods, as well as differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities that
are also expected to be settled in future periods. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates that we expect will apply when the differences are reversed or settled. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce
deferred tax assets to the amount management concludes is more likely than not to be realized.  We periodically review and
evaluate the status of uncertain tax positions and may establish tax reserves for tax benefits that may not be realized. Any income tax-related interest and penalties are included in income tax expense. 
Net Earnings Per Common Share – Basic income (loss) per common share is calculated using the two-class method. The two-class
method is an earnings allocation formula that determines earnings per share for each share of common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared (distributed earnings) and participation rights in undistributed earnings.
Distributed and undistributed earnings are allocated between common and participating security stockholders based on their respective rights to receive dividends. Unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or
dividend equivalents are considered participating securities (i.e., the Company’s deferred stock units and nonvested restricted stock awards and restricted stock units, excluding certain awards with forfeitable rights to dividends).
Undistributed net losses are not allocated to holders of participating securities, as they do not have a contractual obligation to fund the losses incurred by the Company. Net income (loss) attributable to common shares is then divided by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, net of participating securities.  Diluted income
(loss) per common share considers common stock issuable under the assumed release of nonvested restricted stock awards and units with forfeitable dividend rights and the assumed exercise of stock options granted under the Company’s stock plans
as well as the assumed exercise of a warrant related to the United States Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) (potentially dilutive common stock
equivalents). Diluted income (loss) attributable to common shares is then divided by the total of weighted-average number of common shares and common stock equivalents outstanding during the period, net of participating securities. Potentially
dilutive common stock equivalents are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share in periods in which the effect would be antidilutive. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated under the more dilutive of either the
treasury method or the two-class method. See Note 14 for additional information.  Treasury Stock – Treasury stock
acquired is recorded at cost and is carried as a reduction of equity on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. 
Share-Based Compensation – Share-based compensation cost is recognized as expense for stock options, restricted stock awards,
restricted stock units, and deferred stock units issued to employees and non-employee directors based on the fair value of these awards at the date of grant. A binomial option-pricing model is utilized to estimate the fair value of stock options,
while the closing market price of the Company’s common stock at the date of grant is used for restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, and deferred stock units. The costs are recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the
requisite service period, generally defined as the vesting period for the awards. When an award is granted to an employee who is retirement eligible or who will become retirement eligible prior to the end of the service period and will continue to
vest after retirement, the compensation cost of these awards is recognized over the period up to the date an employee first becomes eligible to retire. The amortization of share-based compensation generally reflects estimated forfeitures adjusted
for actual forfeiture experience. As compensation expense is recognized, a deferred tax asset is recorded that represents an estimate of the future tax deduction from exercise or release of restrictions. However, in cases in which a future tax
deduction will not be allowed because of TARP-related compensation restrictions, a deferred tax asset is not recorded. At the time share-based awards are exercised, cancelled, expire, or restrictions are released, we may be required to recognize an
adjustment to 
  92 


Table of Contents

stockholders’ equity or income tax expense, depending on the market price of the Company’s stock at that time and the amount of the deferred tax asset relating to such awards.
Share-based compensation expense is included in “salaries and wages” in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  For additional
details on our share-based compensation plans, refer to Notes 15 and 16.  Comprehensive Income – Comprehensive
income consists of two components, reported net income and OCI. OCI refers to revenue, expenses, gains, and losses that are recorded as an element of equity but are excluded from reported net income. OCI consists of unrealized gains (losses) on
securities available-for-sale and changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated in cash flow hedges, net of tax.  Preferred Stock – Preferred stock ranks senior to common stock with respect to dividends and has preference in the event of liquidation. The shares of fixed rate cumulative perpetual preferred
stock, Series B (“Series B Preferred Stock”) issued to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP CPP of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the warrant issued under the CPP are accounted for as permanent equity on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition. The proceeds received were allocated between the Series B Preferred Stock and the warrant based upon their relative fair values as of the date of issuance, which resulted in the recording of a discount on the
Series B Preferred Stock upon issuance that reflects the value allocated to the warrant. The discount is accreted by a charge to retained earnings using the effective interest method over the expected life of the preferred stock of five years.
 The Series B Preferred Stock pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum until the fifth anniversary of the date
of issuance, and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears and accrued as earned over the period the Series B Preferred Stock is outstanding. Preferred dividends paid (declared and accrued) and the related
accretion is deducted from net income for computing income available to common stockholders and earnings per share computations.  Segment Disclosures – An operating segment is a component of a business that (i) engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses; (ii) has operating
results that are reviewed regularly by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and (iii) has discrete financial information available. Our
chief operating decision maker evaluates the operations of the Company under three operating segments: Banking, Trust and Investments, and Holding Company. Refer to Note 21 for additional disclosure regarding the performance of our operating
segments.  Variable Interest Entities – A variable interest entity (“VIE”) is a partnership, limited
liability company, trust, or other legal entity that does not have sufficient equity to permit it to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or whose investors lack one of three characteristics
associated with owning a controlling financial interest. Those characteristics are: (i) the power, through voting rights or similar rights, to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic
performance, (ii) the obligation to absorb the expected losses of an entity; and (iii) the right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity.  U.S. GAAP requires VIEs to be consolidated by the party that has a controlling financial interest in the VIE (i.e., the primary beneficiary). The Company is deemed to have a controlling financial interest
and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could
potentially be significant to the VIE.   


2.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements  Disclosures on Loan Credit Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses – On December 31, 2010, we adopted new accounting guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) related to improving disclosures about an entity’s allowance for loan losses and the credit quality of its loans. The guidance requires additional disclosure to facilitate financial statement users’ evaluation of the
following: (1) the nature of credit risk inherent in the entity’s loan portfolio, (2) how that risk is analyzed and assessed in arriving at the allowance for loan losses, and (3) the changes and reasons for those changes in the
allowance for loan losses. This guidance was effective for the Company’s financial statements as of December 31, 2010, as it relates to disclosures required as of the end of a reporting period. Disclosures that relate to activity during a
reporting period became effective for the Company’s financial statements beginning on January 1, 2011. Since the new guidance only affects disclosures, it did not impact our financial position and consolidated results of operations upon
adoption. 
  93 


Table of Contents
Fair Value Measurement Disclosures – On January 1, 2011, we adopted the
additional disclosure requirements that had a delayed effective date under the new accounting guidance issued by the FASB in January 2010 regarding separate presentation of information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements for Level 3
fair value measurements. As this guidance only affects disclosures, the adoption of this guidance did not impact our financial position and consolidated results of operations.  Troubled Debt Restructurings – On July 1, 2011, we adopted new guidance related to a creditor’s accounting for TDRs, as well as new disclosure requirements related to TDRs. The
guidance clarifies whether a modification of a loan receivable constitutes a concession to a borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty. The guidance and disclosures were effective for the Company’s financial statements that include
periods beginning on or after July 1, 2011, with retrospective application to the Company’s annual reporting period beginning on January 1, 2011. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial position
and consolidated results of operations.  Accounting Pronouncements Pending Adoption 
Transfers and Servicing – On April 29, 2011, the FASB issued amendments to its accounting guidance on the effective
control assessment for repurchase agreements that in part determines whether a transaction is accounted for as a sale or a secured borrowing. The amendments remove from the assessment of effective control: (1) the criterion requiring the
transferor to have the ability to repurchase or redeem the financial assets on substantially the agreed terms, even in the event of default by the transferee, and (2) the collateral maintenance implementation guidance related to that criterion.
The guidance will be effective for the Company’s financial statements that include periods beginning on or after January 1, 2012. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position and
consolidated results of operations.  Fair Value Measurement – On May 12, 2011, the FASB issued amendments to
its fair value measurement guidance. The amendments substantially converge the principles for measuring fair value and the requirements for related disclosures under U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. The amendments include
clarifications and new guidance related to the highest and best use and valuation premise, measuring the fair value of an instrument classified in shareholders’ equity, measuring the fair value of financial instruments that are managed within a
portfolio, and the application of block discounts and other premiums and discounts in a fair value measurement. The amendments also require additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The guidance will be effective for the Company’s
financial statements that include periods beginning on or after January 1, 2012. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position and consolidated results of operations. 
Statement of Comprehensive Income – On June 16, 2011, the FASB issued guidance on the presentation of the statement of
comprehensive income and in addition provided further clarifying guidance on presentation requirements on December 23, 2011. This guidance provides the Company the option of presenting net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous
statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendments do not change what items are reported in other comprehensive income. The guidance will be effective for the Company’s financial statements that
include periods beginning on or after January 1, 2012 and must be retrospectively applied. As this guidance affects only our presentation of the statement of comprehensive income, the adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on
our financial position and consolidated results of operations.  Testing Goodwill for Impairment – On
September 15, 2011, the FASB issued guidance that permits the Company to perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value before applying the existing
two-step goodwill impairment test. If the Company concludes that this is the case, the Company would proceed with the existing two-step test, whereby the Company would quantitatively determine whether the fair value of a reporting unit is less than
its carrying value, and if so, measure the amount of any goodwill impairment. Otherwise, the Company would be able to bypass the two-step test and conclude that goodwill is not impaired from a qualitative perspective. The guidance will be effective
for the Company’s financial statements that include periods beginning on or after January 1, 2012. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our financial position and consolidated results of operations. 
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities – On December 16, 2011, the FASB issued guidance to enhance current
disclosure requirements on offsetting financial assets and liabilities. The new disclosure requirements are limited to recognized financial instruments subject to master netting arrangements or similar agreements. At a minimum, the Company will be
required to disclose the following information separately for financial assets and liabilities: (a) the gross amounts of recognized financial assets and liabilities, (b) the amounts offset under current U.S. GAAP, (c) the net amounts
presented in the balance sheet, (d) the amounts subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement that were not included in (b), and (e) the difference between (c) and (d). The guidance will be effective for
the Company’s financial statements that include periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and must be retrospectively applied. As this guidance affects only our disclosures, the adoption of this guidance will not have a material
impact on our financial position and consolidated results of operations. 
  94 


Table of Contents


3.
SECURITIES  Securities
Portfolio  (Amounts in thousands)   






































 
 
December 31,
 





 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
Gross Unrealized
 
 
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
Gross Unrealized
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
 
Gains
 
 
Losses
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gains
 
 
Losses
 
 

 Securities Available-for-Sale
 



 



 



 

 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury
 
 $
 60,590 
  
 
 $
931 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 

 
  $
61,521 
  
 
 $
- 
  
 
 $
- 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
- 
  

 U.S. Agencies
 
 
10,014 
  
 
 
20 
  
 
 
-  
  
 

 
 
10,034 
  
 
 
10,155 
  
 
 
271 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
10,426 
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
344,078 
  
 
 
12,062 
  
 
 
(140)
  
 

 
 
356,000 
  
 
 
450,251 
  
 
 
9,400 
  
 
 
(7,930)
  
 
 
451,721 
  

 Residential mortgage -backed securities
 
 
1,140,555 
  
 
 
48,660 
  
 
 
(2)
  
 

 
 
1,189,213 
  
 
 
1,222,642 
  
 
 
31,701 
  
 
 
(7,312)
  
 
 
1,247,031 
  

 State and municipal
 
 
154,080 
  
 
 
12,140 
  
 
 
(23)
  
 

 
 
166,197 
  
 
 
166,209 
  
 
 
6,433 
  
 
 
(534)
  
 
 
172,108 
  

 Foreign sovereign debt
 
 
500 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 

 
 
500 
  
 
 
500 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
500 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 $
  1,709,817 
  
 
 $
  73,813 
  
 
 $
        (165)
  
 

 
 $
  1,783,465 
  
 
 $
  1,849,757 
  
 
 $
  47,805 
  
 
 $
  (15,776)
  
 
 $
  1,881,786 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 











 Securities Held-to-Maturity
   
 



 



 

 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage -backed securities
 
 $
 490,072 
  
 
 $
3,172 
  
 
 $
(85)
  
 

 
 $
493,159 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
- 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
- 
  

 State and municipal
 
 
71 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 

 
 
71 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
- 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 $
 490,143 
  
 
 $
3,172 
  
 
 $
(85)
  
 

 
 $
493,230 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
- 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
- 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-Marketable Equity Investments
 



 



 



 

 



 



 



 



 




 FHLB stock
 
 $
 40,695 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 

 
 $
40,695 
  
 
 $
20,694 
  
 
 $
- 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
20,694 
  

 Other
 
 
2,909 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 

 
 
2,909 
  
 
 
2,843 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2,843 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 $
 43,604 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 

 
 $
43,604 
  
 
 $
23,537 
  
 
 $
- 
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
23,537 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Non-marketable equity investments primarily consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) stock
and represent amounts required to be invested in the common stock of the FHLB. This equity security is “restricted” in that it can only be sold to the FHLB or another member institution at par. Therefore, it is less liquid than other
equity securities. The fair value is estimated to be cost, and no other-than-temporary impairments have been recorded on this security during 2011 and 2010.  The carrying value of securities pledged to secure public deposits, trust deposits, derivative transactions with counterparty banks, standby letters of credit with counterparty banks and for other
purposes as permitted or required by law, totaled $514.6 million and $656.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Excluding securities issued or backed by the U.S. Government and its agencies and U.S. Government-sponsored enterprises, there were no investments in securities from one issuer that exceeded 10% of
consolidated equity at December 31, 2011 or 2010.  The following table presents the aggregate amount of unrealized losses
and the aggregate related fair values of securities with unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The securities presented are grouped according to the time periods during which the securities have been in a continuous unrealized
loss position. 
  95 


Table of Contents
Securities In Unrealized Loss Position 
(Amounts in thousands)   




























 
 
Less Than 12 Months
 
 
12 Months or Longer
 
 
Total
 

 
 
FairValue
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 

 As of December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Securities Available-for-Sale
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 $
36,126 
  
 
 $
(140)
  
 
 $
                    -
  
 
 $
                    -
  
 
 $
36,126 
  
 
 $
(140)
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
154 
  
 
 
(2)
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
154 
  
 
 
(2)
  

 State and municipal
 
 
4,352 
  
 
 
(23)
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
4,352 
  
 
 
(23)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 $
40,632 
  
 
 $
(165)
  
 
 $
-
  
 
 $
-
  
 
 $
40,632 
  
 
 $
(165)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Securities Held-to-Maturity
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 $
80,500 
  
 
 $
(85)
  
 
 $
-
  
 
 $
-
  
 
 $
80,500 
  
 
 $
(85)
  









 As of December 31, 2010
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Securities Available-for-Sale
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 $
148,643 
  
 
 $
(7,930)
  
 
 $
-
  
 
 $
-
  
 
 $
148,643 
  
 
 $
(7,930)
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
378,211 
  
 
 
(7,312)
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
378,211 
  
 
 
(7,312)
  

 State and municipal
 
 
33,710 
  
 
 
(534)
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
33,710 
  
 
 
(534)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 $
      560,564 
  
 
 $
      (15,776)
  
 
 $
-
  
 
 $
-
  
 
 $
      560,564 
  
 
 $
      (15,776)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 There were no securities in an unrealized loss position for greater than 12 months at December 31,
2011 and 2010. The decrease in unrealized losses from the prior year for agency backed collateralized mortgage obligations, agency backed residential mortgage-backed securities and state and municipal securities were caused primarily by decreases in
interest rates and tightening of credit spreads.  The unrealized losses on these securities as of December 31, 2011 are
attributable to changes in interest rates, and because we do not intend to sell the investments and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized cost bases, which may be at
maturity, we do not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011. 
  96 


Table of Contents
Remaining Contractual Maturity of Securities 
(Amounts in thousands)   






















 
 
December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Available-For-Sale
 
 
 
 
Held-To-Maturity 
andNon-Marketable EquityInvestments
 

 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
Fair      
  Value        
 
 
 
 
    Amortized    Cost
 
 
FairValue
 

 U.S. Treasury, U.S. Agencies, state and municipals and foreign sovereign debt securities
 



 



 

 



 




 One year or less
 
 $
1,942 
  
 
 $
1,953 
  
 

 
 $
23 
  
 
 $
23 
  

 One year to five years
 
 
98,608 
  
 
 
101,421 
  
 

 
 
48 
  
 
 
48 
  

 Five years to ten years
 
 
102,932 
  
 
 
111,942 
  
 

 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  

 After ten years
 
 
21,702 
  
 
 
22,936 
  
 

 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  

 All other securities
 



 



 

 



 




 Collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
344,078 
  
 
 
356,000 
  
 

 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
1,140,555 
  
 
 
1,189,213 
  
 

 
 
490,072 
  
 
 
493,159 
  

 Non-marketable equity investments
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 

 
 
43,604 
  
 
 
43,604 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 $
    1,709,817 
  
 
 $
  1,783,465 
  
 

 
 $
    533,747 
  
 
 $
    536,834 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Securities Gains (Losses)  (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
 
Years ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Proceeds from sales
 
 $
      295,870  
  
 
 $
      432,895   
  
 
 $
      265,778  
  






 Gross realized gains
 
 $
6,300  
  
 
 $
13,469   
  
 
 $
8,527  
  

 Gross realized losses
 
 
(529) 
  
 
 
(1,287) 
  
 
 
(1,146) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net realized gains
 
 $
5,771  
  
 
 $
12,182  
  
 
 $
7,381  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Income tax provision on net realized gains
 
 $
2,295  
  
 
 $
4,669  
  
 
 $
2,826  
  
 Refer to Note 13 for additional details of the securities available-for-sale portfolio and the related
impact of unrealized gains (losses) on other comprehensive income. 
  97 


Table of Contents


4.
LOANS  The following
loan portfolio and credit quality disclosures exclude covered loans. Covered loans represent loans acquired through a FDIC-assisted transaction that are subject to a loss share agreement and are presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Condition. Refer to Note 6 for a detailed discussion regarding covered loans.  Loan Portfolio 
(Amounts in thousands)   












 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Commercial and industrial
 
 $
    4,264,738 
  
 
 $
  3,967,548 
  

 Commercial – owner-occupied commercial real estate
 
 
1,135,023 
  
 
 
897,620 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total commercial
 
 
5,399,761 
  
 
 
4,865,168 
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
2,186,340 
  
 
 
2,448,632 
  

 Commercial real estate – multi-family
 
 
424,119 
  
 
 
457,246 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total commercial real estate
 
 
2,610,459 
  
 
 
2,905,878 
  

 Construction
 
 
287,002 
  
 
 
530,733 
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
297,229 
  
 
 
319,146 
  

 Home equity
 
 
181,158 
  
 
 
197,179 
  

 Personal
 
 
232,952 
  
 
 
296,253 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 $
9,008,561 
  
 
 $
9,114,357 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Deferred loan fees included as a reduction in total loans
 
 $
39,259 
  
 
 $
33,535 
  

 Overdrawn demand deposits included in total loans
 
 $
1,919 
  
 
 $
3,197 
  
 We primarily lend to businesses and consumers in the market areas in which we have physical locations. We
seek to diversify our loan portfolio by loan type, industry, and borrower.  Carrying Value of Loans Pledged 
(Amounts in thousands)   












 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Loans pledged to secure:
 



 




 Federal Reserve Bank discount window borrowings
 
 $
1,352,012 
  
 
 $
913,599 
  

 FHLB advances
 
 
583,507 
  
 
 
184,026 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 $
    1,935,519 
  
 
 $
    1,097,625 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Related Party Loans  Some of our executive officers and directors are, and have been during the preceding year, clients of our Bank, and some of our executive officers and directors are direct or indirect owners of 10% or
more of the stock of corporations which are, or have been in the past, clients of the Bank. As clients, they have had transactions with the Bank, in the ordinary course of business of the Bank, including borrowings, that are or were on substantially
the same terms (including interest rates and collateral on loans) as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated persons. The Securities and Exchange Commission has determined that, with respect to the Company and its
significant subsidiaries, expanded disclosure of borrowings by directors and executive officers and certain of their related interests should be made if the loans outstanding are greater than 5% of the issuer’s stockholders’ equity, in the
aggregate. These loans totaled $11.2 million and $24.7 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and were not greater the 5% of stockholders’ equity at either December 31, 2011 or 2010. Related party credit extensions
totaled $19.3 million and $97.7 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In the opinion of management, none of the transactions involved more than the normal risk of collectability or presented any other unfavorable features.

  98 


Table of Contents
Loan Portfolio Aging  Loan Portfolio Aging  (Amounts in thousands) 
 
































 
 
 
 
 
Delinquent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










 
 
Current
 
 
30 –
59  Days Past  Due
 
 
60 –
89  Days Past  Due
 
 
  90 Days Past  Due
andAccruing
 
 
Total  Accruing  Loans
 
 
  Nonaccrual  
 
 
  Total Loans  
 










 As of December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 $
  5,326,862  
  
 
 $
6,018  
  
 
 $
923  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
  5,333,803  
  
 
 $
65,958  
  
 
 $
5,399,761  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
2,463,902  
  
 
 
3,523  
  
 
 
9,777  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2,477,202  
  
 
 
133,257  
  
 
 
2,610,459  
  

 Construction
 
 
262,742  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2,381  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
265,123  
  
 
 
21,879  
  
 
 
287,002  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
278,195  
  
 
 
3,800  
  
 
 
645  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
282,640  
  
 
 
14,589  
  
 
 
297,229  
  

 Home equity
 
 
168,322  
  
 
 
433  
  
 
 
800  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
169,555  
  
 
 
11,603  
  
 
 
181,158  
  

 Personal
 
 
220,364  
  
 
 
13  
  
 
 
9  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
220,386  
  
 
 
12,566  
  
 
 
232,952  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 $
8,720,387  
  
 
 $
13,787  
  
 
 $
14,535  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
8,748,709  
  
 
 $
259,852  
  
 
 $
9,008,561  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 










 As of December 31, 2010
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 $
4,793,144  
  
 
 $
1,024  
  
 
 $
759  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
4,794,927  
  
 
 $
70,241  
  
 
 $
4,865,168  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
2,668,639  
  
 
 
10,264  
  
 
 
12,346  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2,691,249  
  
 
 
214,629  
  
 
 
2,905,878  
  

 Construction
 
 
495,435  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1,895  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
497,330  
  
 
 
33,403  
  
 
 
530,733  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
300,027  
  
 
 
180  
  
 
 
4,098  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
304,305  
  
 
 
14,841  
  
 
 
319,146  
  

 Home equity
 
 
185,675  
  
 
 
976  
  
 
 
2,333  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
188,984  
  
 
 
8,195  
  
 
 
197,179  
  

 Personal
 
 
256,860  
  
 
 
13,122  
  
 
 
1,700  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
271,682  
  
 
 
24,571  
  
 
 
296,253  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 $
8,699,780  
  
 
 $
25,566  
  
 
 $
23,131  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
8,748,477  
  
 
 $
365,880  
  
 
 $
9,114,357  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  99 


Table of Contents
Impaired Loans  Impaired Loans  (Amounts in thousands) 
 
























 
 
UnpaidContractualPrincipalBalance
 
 
RecordedInvestmentWith NoSpecificReserve
 
 
RecordedInvestmentWithSpecificReserve
 
 
TotalRecordedInvestment
 
 
SpecificReserve
 

 As of December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 $
123,317  
  
 
 $
67,628  
  
 
 $
46,098  
  
 
 $
113,726  
  
 
 $
14,163  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
185,287  
  
 
 
55,173  
  
 
 
114,233  
  
 
 
169,406  
  
 
 
38,905  
  

 Construction
 
 
24,135  
  
 
 
1,548  
  
 
 
20,331  
  
 
 
21,879  
  
 
 
5,202  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
18,577  
  
 
 
10,502  
  
 
 
7,325  
  
 
 
17,827  
  
 
 
976  
  

 Home equity
 
 
12,881  
  
 
 
2,310  
  
 
 
9,293  
  
 
 
11,603  
  
 
 
1,272  
  

 Personal
 
 
38,515  
  
 
 
14,751  
  
 
 
11,569  
  
 
 
26,320  
  
 
 
9,426  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total impaired loans
 
 $
402,712  
  
 
 $
151,912  
  
 
 $
208,849  
  
 
 $
360,761  
  
 
 $
69,944  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 As of December 31,2010
 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 $
86,341  
  
 
 $
30,143  
  
 
 $
48,115  
  
 
 $
78,258  
  
 
 $
17,271  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
304,043  
  
 
 
121,926  
  
 
 
152,722  
  
 
 
274,648  
  
 
 
38,747  
  

 Construction
 
 
52,055  
  
 
 
11,437  
  
 
 
26,314  
  
 
 
37,751  
  
 
 
3,778  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
17,186  
  
 
 
4,413  
  
 
 
11,226  
  
 
 
15,639  
  
 
 
1,046  
  

 Home equity
 
 
8,575  
  
 
 
-   
  
 
 
8,195  
  
 
 
8,195  
  
 
 
2,614  
  

 Personal
 
 
48,911  
  
 
 
21,227  
  
 
 
17,738  
  
 
 
38,965  
  
 
 
7,515  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total impaired loans
 
 $
        517,111  
  
 
 $
        189,146  
  
 
 $
        264,310  
  
 
 $
        453,456  
  
 
 $
        70,971  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Average Recorded Investment and Interest Income Recognized on Impaired Loans (1) 
(Amounts in thousands)   












 
 
Year Ended
 

 
 
  Average Recorded  Investment
 
 
  Interest Income  Recognized
 

 December 31, 2011
 



 




 Commercial
 
 $
99,548  
  
 
 $
2,585  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
245,722  
  
 
 
2,852  
  

 Construction
 
 
35,411  
  
 
 
181  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
19,060  
  
 
 
67  
  

 Home equity
 
 
12,230  
  
 
 
29  
  

 Personal
 
 
31,928  
  
 
 
497  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 $
                    443,899  
  
 
 $
                6,211  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 December 31, 2010
 
 $
423,527  
  
 






 (1)      Represents amounts while classified as impaired for the periods
presented.

         
 Credit Quality Indicators  The Company has adopted an internal risk rating policy in which each loan is rated for credit quality with a numerical rating of 1 through 8. Loans rated 5 and better (1-5 ratings, inclusive) are credits
that exhibit acceptable financial performance, cash flow, and leverage. We attempt to mitigate risk by structure, collateral, monitoring, or other meaningful controls. Credits rated 6 are considered special mention as these credits demonstrate
potential weakness that if left unresolved, may result in deterioration in the Company’s credit position and/or the repayment prospects for the credit. Borrowers rated special mention may exhibit adverse operating trends, high leverage, tight
liquidity or other credit concerns. Potential problem loans are loans that we have identified as performing in 
  100



Table of Contents

accordance with contractual terms, but for which management has some level of concern about the ability of the borrowers to meet existing repayment terms in future periods. These loans have a
risk rating of 7 but are not classified as nonaccrual. The ultimate collection of these loans is questionable due to the same conditions that characterize a 6-rated credit. These credits may also be considered inadequately protected by the current
net worth and/or paying capacity of the obligor or guarantors or the collateral pledged. These loans generally have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that may jeopardize collection of the debt and are characterized by the distinct possibility
that the Company will sustain some loss if left unresolved. Although these loans are generally identified as potential problem loans and require additional attention by management, they may never become nonperforming. Nonperforming loans include
nonaccrual loans risk rated 7 or 8 and have all the weaknesses inherent in a 7-rated potential problem loan with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently-existing facts,
conditions and values, highly questionable and improbable. Special mention, potential problem and nonperforming loans are reviewed at minimum on a quarterly basis, while all other rated credits over a certain dollar threshold, depending on product
segment, are reviewed annually or as the situation warrants.  Credit Quality Indicators 
(Dollars in thousands)   
































 Product Segment
 
Special    Mention  
  
 
 
% of  Portfolio  LoanType
 
 
    Potential    ProblemLoans
 
 
% of  Portfolio  LoanType
 
 
Non-  Performing  
Loans
 
 
% ofPortfolioLoanType
 
 
    Total Loans    
 

 As of December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 


 
 



 


 
 




 Commercial
 
  $
54,326 
  
 
 
1.0  
  
 
  $
79,328 
  
 
 
1.5  
  
 
  $
65,958 
  
 
 
1.2  
  
 
  $
5,399,761 
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
132,915 
  
 
 
5.1  
  
 
 
62,193 
  
 
 
2.4  
  
 
 
133,257 
  
 
 
5.1  
  
 
 
2,610,459 
  

 Construction
 
 
7,272 
  
 
 
2.5  
  
 
 
9,283 
  
 
 
3.2  
  
 
 
21,879 
  
 
 
7.6  
  
 
 
287,002 
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
9,344 
  
 
 
3.1  
  
 
 
17,931 
  
 
 
6.0  
  
 
 
14,589 
  
 
 
4.9  
  
 
 
297,229 
  

 Home equity
 
 
758 
  
 
 
0.4  
  
 
 
6,384 
  
 
 
3.5  
  
 
 
11,603 
  
 
 
6.4  
  
 
 
181,158 
  

 Personal
 
 
350 
  
 
 
0.2  
  
 
 
1,976 
  
 
 
0.8  
  
 
 
12,566 
  
 
 
5.4  
  
 
 
232,952 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
  $
204,965 
  
 
 
2.3  
  
 
  $
177,095 
  
 
 
2.0  
  
 
  $
259,852 
  
 
 
2.9  
  
 
  $
9,008,561 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 As of December 31, 2010
 



 


 
 



 


 
 



 


 
 




 Commercial
 
  $
111,930 
  
 
 
2.3  
  
 
  $
173,829 
  
 
 
3.6  
  
 
  $
70,241 
  
 
 
1.4  
  
 
  $
4,865,168 
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
203,072 
  
 
 
7.0  
  
 
 
260,042 
  
 
 
8.9  
  
 
 
214,629 
  
 
 
7.4  
  
 
 
2,905,878 
  

 Construction
 
 
67,915 
  
 
 
12.8  
  
 
 
45,119 
  
 
 
8.5  
  
 
 
33,403 
  
 
 
6.3  
  
 
 
530,733 
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
9,962 
  
 
 
3.1  
  
 
 
15,101 
  
 
 
4.7  
  
 
 
14,841 
  
 
 
4.7  
  
 
 
319,146 
  

 Home equity
 
 
3,757 
  
 
 
1.9  
  
 
 
11,272 
  
 
 
5.7  
  
 
 
8,195 
  
 
 
4.2  
  
 
 
197,179 
  

 Personal
 
 
2,198 
  
 
 
0.7  
  
 
 
2,227 
  
 
 
0.8  
  
 
 
24,571 
  
 
 
8.3  
  
 
 
296,253 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
  $
398,834 
  
 
 
4.4  
  
 
  $
507,590 
  
 
 
5.6  
  
 
  $
365,880 
  
 
 
4.0  
  
 
  $
9,114,357 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  101



Table of Contents
Troubled Debt Restructured Loans 
Troubled Debt Restructured Loans Outstanding  (Amounts in thousands)   












 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Accruing interest:
 



 




 Commercial
 
$
47,768  
  
 
$
8,017  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
36,149  
  
 
 
60,019  
  

 Construction
 
 
-  
  
 
 
4,348  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
3,238  
  
 
 
798  
  

 Personal
 
 
13,754  
  
 
 
14,394  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total accruing
 
$
                100,909  
  
 
$
            87,576  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Nonaccrual:
 



 




 Commercial
 
 $
28,409  
  
 
$
1,247  
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
32,722  
  
 
 
45,028  
  

 Construction
 
 
960  
  
 
 
-  
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
3,592  
  
 
 
1,350  
  

 Home equity
 
 
2,082  
  
 
 
16,427  
  

 Personal
 
 
7,639  
  
 
 
1,229  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total nonaccrual
 
$
75,404  
  
 
$
65,281  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011 and 2010, commitments to lend additional funds to debtors whose loan terms have
been modified in a TDR (both accruing and nonaccruing) totaled $16.1 million and $3.7 million, respectively. 
  102



Table of Contents
Additions to Troubled Debt Restructurings During the Period 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Number of  Borrowers  
 
  
    Outstanding Recorded Investment (1)    
 

 
  
  
Pre-Modification
 
  
Post-Modification
 

 Accruing interest:
  



  



  




  Commercial
  



  



  




 Extension of maturity date (2)
  
 
15 
  
  
 $
45,280 
  
  
  $
45,177 
  

 Other concession (3)
  
 
6 
  
  
 
25,488 
  
  
 
26,201 
  

 Multiple note structuring
  
 
1 
  
  
 
8,837 
  
  
 
5,265 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial
  
 
22 
  
  
 
79,605 
  
  
 
76,643 
  

 Commercial real estate
  



  



  




 Extension of maturity date (2)
  
 
13 
  
  
 
7,590 
  
  
 
7,590 
  

 Multiple note structuring
  
 
2 
  
  
 
9,990 
  
  
 
5,344 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial real estate
  
 
15 
  
  
 
17,580 
  
  
 
12,934 
  

 Residential real estate
  



  



  




 Extension of maturity date (2)
  
 
2 
  
  
 
374 
  
  
 
374 
  

 Home equity
  



  



  




 Extension of maturity date (2)
  
 
2 
  
  
 
203 
  
  
 
203 
  

 Personal
  



  



  




 Extension of maturity date (2)
  
 
1 
  
  
 
265 
  
  
 
265 
  

 Other concession (3)
  
 
1 
  
  
 
252 
  
  
 
252 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total personal
  
 
2 
  
  
 
517 
  
  
 
517 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total accruing
  
 
                43 
  
  
 $
            98,279 
  
  
  $
                90,671 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Change in recorded investment due to principal paydown at time of modification
  



  



  
  $
503  
  

 Change in recorded investment due to charge-offs as part of the multiple note structuring
  



  



  
  $
7,497  
  
  


(1) 
 Represents amounts as of the date immediately prior to and immediately after the modification is effective. 


(2) 
 Extension of maturity date also includes loans renewed at existing rate of interest which is considered a below market rate for that particular
loan’s risk profile. 


(3) 
 Other concessions primarily include interest rate reductions, loan increases, and deferral of principal. 
  103



Table of Contents
Additions to Troubled Debt Restructurings During the Period (Continued) 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Number of  
  Borrowers    
 
 
Outstanding Recorded Investment 
(1)
 

 
 
 
  Pre-Modification  
 
 
      Post-Modification      
 

 Nonaccrual:
 



 



 




 Commercial
 



 



 




 Extension of maturity date (2)
 
 
4  
  
 
  $
20,320  
  
 
    $
20,320  
  

 Other concession (3)
 
 
2  
  
 
 
128  
  
 
 
328  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total commercial
 
 
6  
  
 
 
20,448  
  
 
 
20,648  
  

 Commercial real estate
 



 



 




 Extension of maturity date (2)
 
 
7  
  
 
 
18,625  
  
 
 
17,136  
  

 Other concession (3)
 
 
2  
  
 
 
6,208  
  
 
 
6,208  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total commercial real estate
 
 
9  
  
 
 
24,833  
  
 
 
23,344  
  

 Construction
 



 



 




 Extension of maturity date (2)
 
 
1  
  
 
 
179  
  
 
 
179  
  

 Residential real estate
 



 



 




 Extension of maturity date (2)
 
 
3  
  
 
 
1,446  
  
 
 
1,446  
  

 Other concession (3)
 
 
1  
  
 
 
696  
  
 
 
696  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total residential real estate
 
 
4  
  
 
 
2,142  
  
 
 
2,142  
  

 Home equity
 



 



 




 Extension of maturity date (2)
 
 
2  
  
 
 
206  
  
 
 
206  
  

 Other concession (3)
 
 
1  
  
 
 
490  
  
 
 
490  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total home equity
 
 
3  
  
 
 
696  
  
 
 
696  
  

 Personal
 



 



 




 Extension of maturity date (2)
 
 
4  
  
 
 
695  
  
 
 
681  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total nonaccrual
 
 
            27  
  
 
  $
            48,933  
  
 
    $
                47,690  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in recorded investment due to principal paydown at time of modification
 



 



 
    $
1,503  
  
  


 
(1) 
 Represents amounts as of the date immediately prior to and immediately after the modification is effective. 


 
(2) 
 Extension of maturity date also includes loans renewed at existing rate of interest which is considered a below market rate for that particular
loan’s risk profile. 


 
(3) 
 Other concessions primarily include interest rate reductions, loan increases, and deferral of principal. 
At the time an accruing loan becomes modified as a TDR, it is considered impaired and no longer included as part of the general loan loss
reserve determination. However, our general reserve methodology may consider the amount and/or characteristics of the TDRs removed as one of many credit or portfolio considerations in establishing final reserve requirements. 
Modified loans which meet the definition of a TDR (both accruing and nonaccruing), including those that have payment defaults, are
considered impaired and, accordingly, the loans are specifically evaluated for impairment at the end of each accounting period with a specific valuation reserve created, if necessary, as a component of the allowance for loan losses. Refer to the
“Impaired Loan” and “Allowance for Loan Losses” sections of Note 1 regarding our policy for assessing potential impairment on such loans. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses included $25.7 million in specific
reserves for nonaccrual TDRs. There were no specific reserves for accruing TDRs at December 31, 2011. 
  104



Table of Contents
The following table presents the recorded investment and number of loans modified as a TDR
during the previous 12 months which subsequently became nonperforming during the year ended December 31, 2011. A loan becomes nonperforming and placed on nonaccrual status typically when the principal or interest payments are 90 days past due
based on contractual terms or when an individual analysis of a borrower’s creditworthiness indicates a loan should be placed on nonaccrual status earlier than when the loan becomes 90 days past due. 
Troubled Debt Restructurings  That Became Nonperforming Within 12 Months of Restructuring  (Amounts in
thousands)   












 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Number
of      Borrowers      
 
 
Recorded      Investment (1)      
 

 Commercial
 
 
8 
  
 
 $
6,710 
  

 Commercial real estate
 
 
11 
  
 
 
9,095 
  

 Construction
 
 
2 
  
 
 
4,018 
  

 Residential real estate
 
 
1 
  
 
 
99 
  

 Home equity
 
 
2 
  
 
 
176 
  

 Personal
 
 
1 
  
 
 
250 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
                25 
  
 
 $
            20,348 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   (1)    Represents amounts as of the balance sheet
date from the quarter the default was first reported.
    
  


5.
ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES AND RESERVE FOR UNFUNDED COMMITMENTS 
Allowance for Loan Losses (excluding covered assets) (1)  (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
 
Years ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Allowance for Loan Losses:
 



 



 




 Balance at beginning of year
 
 $
222,821 
  
 
 $
221,688 
  
 
 $
112,672 
  

 Loans charged-off
 
 
(171,027)
  
 
 
(197,040)
  
 
 
(101,260)
  

 Recoveries on loans previously charged-off
 
 
9,245 
  
 
 
6,149 
  
 
 
11,410 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs
 
 
(161,782)
  
 
 
(190,891)
  
 
 
(89,850)
  

 Provision for loan losses
 
 
130,555 
  
 
 
192,024 
  
 
 
198,866 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
 
 $
191,594 
  
 
 $
222,821 
  
 
 $
221,688 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance, individually evaluated for impairment (2)
 
 $
69,944 
  
 
 $
70,971 
  
 
 $
65,760 
  

 Ending balance, collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 $
121,650 
  
 
 $
151,850 
  
 
 $
155,928 
  






 Recorded Investment in Loans:
 



 



 




 Ending balance, individually evaluated for impairment (2)
 
 $
360,761 
  
 
 $
453,456 
  
 
 $
395,447 
  

 Ending balance, collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
8,647,800 
  
 
 
8,660,901 
  
 
 
8,651,178 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recorded investment in loans
 
 $
  9,008,561 
  
 
 $
    9,114,357 
  
 
 $
    9,046,625 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   (1)    Referto Note 6 for a detailed discussion
regarding covered assets. (2)    Referto Note 1 and Note 4 for additional information regarding impaired loans.
    
  
 




  105



Table of Contents
Additional detail on the allowance for loan losses and recorded investment in loans, by
product segment, for the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented in the following table. 
Allowance for Loan Losses and Recorded Investment in Loans (excluding covered assets) (1) 
(Amounts in thousands)   
































 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
 Commercial 
 
 
 Commercial RealEstate
 
 
 Construction 
 
 
ResidentialRealEstate
 
 
HomeEquity
 
 
  Personal  
 
 
Total
 

 Allowance for Loan Losses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




   Balance at beginning of
year
 
 $
70,115  
  
 
 $
110,853  
  
 
 $
19,778  
  
 
 $
5,321  
  
 
 $
5,764  
  
 
 $
10,990  
  
 
 $
222,821  
  

   Loans
charged-off
 
 
(32,742) 
  
 
 
(108,814) 
  
 
 
(11,282) 
  
 
 
(2,009) 
  
 
 
(6,586) 
  
 
 
(9,594) 
  
 
 
(171,027) 
  

 Recoveries on loans previously charged-off
 
 
4,280  
  
 
 
3,162  
  
 
 
291  
  
 
 
61  
  
 
 
337  
  
 
 
1,114  
  
 
 
9,245  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs
 
 
(28,462) 
  
 
 
(105,652) 
  
 
 
(10,991)  
  
 
 
(1,948)  
  
 
 
(6,249)  
  
 
 
(8,480) 
  
 
 
(161,782) 
  

   Provision for loan
losses
 
 
19,010  
  
 
 
89,704  
  
 
 
4,065  
  
 
 
3,003  
  
 
 
4,507  
  
 
 
10,266  
  
 
 
130,555  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
 
 $
60,663  
  
 
 $
94,905   
  
 
 $
12,852  
  
 
 $
6,376  
  
 
 $
4,022  
  
 
 $
12,776  
  
 
 $
191,594  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   Ending balance,
individually evaluated for impairment (2)
 
 $
14,163  
  
 
 $
38,905   
  
 
 $
5,202  
  
 
 $
976  
  
 
 $
1,272  
  
 
 $
9,426  
  
 
 $
69,944  
  

 Ending balance, collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 $
46,500  
  
 
 $
56,000   
  
 
 $
7,650  
  
 
 $
5,400  
  
 
 $
2,750  
  
 
 $
3,350  
  
 
 $
121,650  
  










 Recorded Investment in Loans:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Ending balance, individually evaluated for impairment (2)
 
 $
113,726  
  
 
 $
169,406  
  
 
 $
21,879  
  
 
 $
17,827  
  
 
 $
11,603  
  
 
 $
26,320  
  
 
 $
360,761  
  

 Ending balance, collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
5,286,035  
  
 
 
2,441,053   
  
 
 
265,123  
  
 
 
279,402  
  
 
 
169,555  
  
 
 
206,632  
  
 
 
8,647,800  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recorded investment in loans
 
 $
  5,399,761  
  
 
 $
  2,610,459  
  
 
 $
  287,002  
  
 
 $
  297,229  
  
 
 $
  181,158  
  
 
 $
  232,952  
  
 
 $
  9,008,561  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

(1)    Refer to Note 6
for a detailed discussion regarding covered assets.  (2)    Refer to Note 4 for additional information regarding impaired loans. 
Reserve for Unfunded Commitments (1)  (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
8,119  
  
  
$
1,452  
  
  
$
840  
  

 (Release) provision for unfunded commitments
  
 
(842) 
  
  
 
6,667  
  
  
 
612  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
7,277  
  
  
$
8,119  
  
  
$
1,452  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






   Unfunded commitments,
excluding covered assets, at year end
  
$
4,448,177  
  
  
$
4,128,221  
  
  
$
    3,959,846  
  



    (1)    Unfunded commitments include commitments
to extend credit, standby letters of credit and commercial letters of credit
  
 Refer to Note 19 for additional details of commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and
commercial letters of credit. 
  106



Table of Contents


6.
COVERED ASSETS  In 2009,
the Bank acquired certain assets and assumed substantially all of the deposits of the former Founders Bank from the FDIC. Assets totaling approximately $843 million were purchased at a discount of $54 million. The Bank and the FDIC entered into a
loss sharing agreement regarding future losses incurred on loans and foreclosed loan collateral existing at the date of acquisition. Under the terms of the loss-sharing agreement, the FDIC generally will assume 80% of the first $173 million of
credit losses and 95% of the credit losses in excess of $173 million.  As a result of the loss sharing agreement discussed
above, the acquired loans, foreclosed loan collateral and indemnification receivable (representing the present value of the expected reimbursement from the FDIC related to expected losses on the acquired loans and foreclosed real estate under such
agreement) are presented in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as “covered assets.” The carrying amount of covered assets is presented in the following table. 
Covered Assets  (Amounts in thousands)   




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
PurchasedImpairedLoans
 
 
PurchasedNonimpairedLoans
 
 
OtherAssets
 
 
Total
 
 
PurchasedImpairedLoans
 
 
PurchasedNonimpairedLoans
 
 
OtherAssets
 
 
Total
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commercial loans
 
 $
10,489 
  
 
 $
21,079 
  
 
$
- 
  
 
$
31,568 
  
 
$
12,824 
  
 
$
31,988 
  
 
$
- 
  
 
$
44,812 
  

 Commercial real estate loans
 
 
38,433 
  
 
 
111,777 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
150,210 
  
 
 
57,979 
  
 
 
131,215 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
189,194 
  

 Residential mortgage loans
 
 
292 
  
 
 
50,111 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
50,403 
  
 
 
258 
  
 
 
56,490 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
56,748 
  

 Consumer installment and other
 
 
281 
  
 
 
5,518 
  
 
 
324 
  
 
 
6,123 
  
 
 
197 
  
 
 
8,624 
  
 
 
308 
  
 
 
9,129 
  

 Foreclosed real estate
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
30,342 
  
 
 
30,342 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
32,155 
  
 
 
32,155 
  

 Asset in lieu
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
469 
  
 
 
469 
  

 Estimated loss reimbursement by the FDIC
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
38,161 
  
 
 
38,161 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
64,703 
  
 
 
64,703 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total covered assets
 
 
49,495 
  
 
 
188,485 
  
 
 
68,827 
  
 
 
306,807 
  
 
 
71,258 
  
 
 
228,317 
  
 
 
97,635 
  
 
 
397,210 
  

 Allowance for covered loan losses
 
 
(14,727)
  
 
 
(11,212)
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
(25,939)
  
 
 
(8,601)
  
 
 
(6,733)
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
(15,334)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net covered assets
 
  $
34,768 
  
 
 $
177,273 
  
 
$
    68,827 
  
 
$
  280,868 
  
 
$
     62,657 
  
 
$
    221,584 
  
 
$
    97,635 
  
 
$
    381,876 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 Nonperforming covered loans (1)

  
 
$
19,894 
  
 



 



 



 
$
16,357 
  
  


 
(1) 
 Excludes purchased impaired loans which are accounted for on a pool basis based on common risk characteristics as a single asset with a single
composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. Because we are recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, all purchased impaired loans are considered to be performing. 
At date of purchase, all purchased loans and the related indemnification asset were recorded at fair value. 
On an ongoing basis, the accounting for purchased loans and the related indemnification asset follows applicable authoritative accounting
guidance for purchased nonimpaired loans and purchased impaired loans. The amounts that we realize on these loans and the related indemnification asset could differ materially from the carrying value reflected in these financial statements, based
upon the timing and amount of collections on the acquired loans in future periods. Our losses on these assets may be mitigated to the extent covered under the specific terms and provisions of any loss share agreements. 
The allowance for covered loan losses is determined in a manner consistent with our policy for the originated loan portfolio. The
following table presents changes in the allowance for covered loan losses for the periods presented. 
  107



Table of Contents
Allowance for Covered Loan Losses 
(Amounts in thousands)   








































 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 












 
 
  Purchased  ImpairedLoans
 
 
Purchased  Nonimpaired  Loans
 
 
Total
 
 
  Purchased  ImpairedLoans
 
 
PurchasedNonimpairedLoans
 
 
Total
 
 
PurchasedImpairedLoans
 
 
PurchasedNonimpairedLoans
 
 
Total
 

 Balance at beginning of year
 
 $
8,601  
  
 
 $
6,733  
  
 
$
15,334  
  
 
$
755  
  
 
$
2,009  
  
 
$
2,764
  
 
$
-  
  
 
$
-  
  
 
$
-  
  

 Loans charged-off
 
 
(264) 
  
 
 
(70) 
  
 
 
(334) 
  
 
 
(20) 
  
 
 
(6) 
  
 
 
(26)
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  

 Recoveries on loans previously charged-off
 
 
454  
  
 
 
86  
  
 
 
540  
  
 
 
14  
  
 
 
2  
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net recoveries (charge-offs)
 
 
190  
  
 
 
16  
  
 
 
206  
  
 
 
(6)
  
 
 
(4)
  
 
 
(10)
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  

 Provision for covered loan losses (1)
 
 
5,936  
  
 
 
4,463  
  
 
 
10,399  
  
 
 
7,852  
  
 
 
4,728  
  
 
 
12,580
  
 
 
755  
  
 
 
2,009  
  
 
 
2,764  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
 
 $
14,727  
  
 
 $
11,212  
  
 
 $
  25,939  
  
 
 $
    8,601  
  
 
 $
    6,733  
  
 
 $
  15,334
  
 
 $
755  
  
 
 $
  2,009  
  
 
 $
  2,764  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Includes a provision for credit losses of $2.3 million, $2.5 million, and $553,000 recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, representing the Company’s 20% non-reimbursable portion under the loss share agreement.  Disposals (including sales) of loans or foreclosed property result in removal of the asset from the covered asset portfolio at its carrying amount. 
Changes in the carrying amount and accretable yield for purchased impaired loans that evidenced deterioration at the acquisition date are
set forth in the following table.  Changes in Purchased Impaired Loans Accretable Yield and Carrying Amount 
(Amounts in thousands)   




















 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
  Accretable  Yield
 
 
  Carrying  Amountof
Loans
 
 
  Accretable  Yield
 
 
  Carrying  Amount ofLoans
 

 Balance at beginning of year
 
  $
13,253 
  
 
$
71,258 
  
 
$
34,790 
  
 
$
94,140 
  

 Payments received
 
 
- 
  
 
 
(11,558)
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
(7,596)
  

 Charge-offs/disposals (1)
 
 
(14,659)
  
 
 
(14,659)
  
 
 
(24,520)
  
 
 
(24,449)
  

 Reclassifications from nonaccretable difference, net
 
 
11,455 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
12,146 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Accretion
 
 
(4,454)
  
 
 
4,454 
  
 
 
(9,163)
  
 
 
9,163 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
 
  $
5,595 
  
 
$
    49,495 
  
 
$
    13,253 
  
 
$
71,258 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Contractual amount outstanding at end of year
 



 
$
75,159 
  
 



 
$
114,336 
  
  


 
(1)
 Includes transfers to covered foreclosed real estate.

  108



Table of Contents


7.
PREMISES, FURNITURE, AND EQUIPMENT  Premises, Furniture, and Equipment  (Amounts in thousands) 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Land
  
 $
1,226 
  
  
 $
1,227 
  

 Building
  
 
7,133 
  
  
 
6,856 
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
32,343 
  
  
 
30,289 
  

 Furniture and equipment
  
 
48,384 
  
  
 
44,632 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cost
  
 
89,086 
  
  
 
83,004 
  

 Accumulated depreciation
  
 
(50,453)
  
  
 
(42,029)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net book value
  
 $
        38,633 
  
  
 $
        40,975 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Depreciation expense on premises, furniture, and equipment totaled $8.8 million in 2011, $7.9 million in
2010, and $6.4 million in 2009.  At December 31, 2011, we were obligated under certain non-cancellable operating leases
for premises and equipment, which expire at various dates through the year 2023. Many of these leases contain renewal options, and certain leases provide options to purchase the leased property during or at the expiration of the lease period at
specific prices. Some leases contain escalation clauses calling for rentals to be adjusted for increased real estate taxes and other operating expenses, or proportionately adjusted for increases in the consumer or other price indices. The following
summary reflects the future minimum rental payments, by year, required under operating leases that, as of December 31, 2011, have initial or remaining non-cancellable lease terms in excess of one year. 
Operating Leases  (Amounts in thousands)   








 
  
Total
 

 Year ending December 31,
  




 2012
  
  $
10,903
  

 2013
  
 
10,855
  

 2014
  
 
10,735
  

 2015
  
 
10,809
  

 2016
  
 
9,341
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
52,508
  


  
  
  
 

 Total minimum lease payments
  
  $
        105,151
  


  
  
  
 
  
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Rental expense charged to operations (1)
  
$
        11,780
  
  
$
      12,293
  
  
$
      11,493  
  

 Rental income from premises leased to others
  
$
676
  
  
$
781
  
  
$
432  
  

   (1)   Includingamounts paid under short-term cancellable
leases.
  



  



  




  109



Table of Contents


8.
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  Changes in the Carrying Amount of Goodwill by Operating Segment  (Amounts in
thousands)   




















 
  
    Banking    
 
  
Trust and  Investments  
 
  
HoldingCompany  Activities  
 
  
 Consolidated 
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2009
  
 $
81,755 
  
  
 $
12,916 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
94,671 
  

 Tax benefit adjustment
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(50)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(50)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2010
  
 
81,755 
  
  
 
12,866 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
94,621 
  

 Tax benefit adjustment
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(50)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(50)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2011
  
 $
    81,755 
  
  
 $
      12,816 
  
  
 $
            - 
  
  
 $
      94,571 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is subject to impairment tests at least on an annual basis or
more often if events or circumstances occur that would indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. In our annual goodwill impairment test performed as of October 31, 2011, the
Company determined that the Trust and Investments reporting unit “passed” (the fair value exceeded the carrying amount) step one of the goodwill impairment test, while the Banking reporting unit failed step one of the impairment test. As a
result of the step one procedures performed, the Banking reporting unit’s adjusted net book value exceeded its fair value by approximately $45.9 million. However, the Company determined that no goodwill impairment charge was necessary based on
the implied fair value adjustments of the Banking reporting unit’s assets and liabilities determined in the step two valuation procedures. As a result of the step two procedures performed, the implied fair value of the Banking reporting
unit’s goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by approximately $90.4 million.  There were no impairment charges for
goodwill recorded in 2011, 2010, or 2009. The Company is not aware of any events or circumstances that would result in goodwill impairment as of December 31, 2011.  The reduction in goodwill is due to an adjustment for tax benefits associated with the goodwill attributable to Lodestar Investment Counsel, LLC (“Lodestar”), an investment management firm and
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.  We have other intangible assets capitalized on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Condition in the form of core deposit premiums, client relationships and an assembled workforce. These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from 3 years to 15 years. We review intangible
assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that carrying amounts may not be recoverable. During 2011, there were no events or circumstances to indicate there may be impairment of intangible assets, and no
impairment charges for other intangible assets were recorded in 2011, 2010, or 2009.  Other Intangible Assets
 (Amounts in thousands)   




























 
  
Gross Carrying Amount
 
  
Accumulated Amortization
 
  
Net Carrying Amount
 









 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Core deposit intangible
  
 $
18,093 
  
  
 $
18,093 
  
  
 $
5,079 
  
  
 $
4,098 
  
  
 $
13,014 
  
  
 $
13,995 
  

 Client relationships
  
 
4,900 
  
  
 
4,900 
  
  
 
2,561 
  
  
 
2,168 
  
  
 
2,339 
  
  
 
2,732 
  

 Assembled workforce
  
 
736 
  
  
 
736 
  
  
 
736 
  
  
 
623 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
113 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 $
        23,729 
  
  
 $
        23,729 
  
  
 $
        8,376 
  
  
 $
        6,889 
  
  
 $
      15,353 
  
  
 $
      16,840 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  110



Table of Contents
Additional Information - Other Intangible Assets 
(Dollars in thousands)   
















 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 






 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Additions to other intangible assets:
 



 



 




 Core deposit intangible (1)
 
$
- 
  
 
$
- 
  
 
$
12,378 
  

 Client relationships (1)
 
$
- 
  
 
$
- 
  
 
$
1,300 
  

 Weighted average remaining life at year end (in years):
 



 



 




 Core deposit intangible
 
 
5 
  
 
 
6 
  
 
 
7 
  

 Client relationships
 
 
8 
  
 
 
8 
  
 
 
9 
  

 Assembled workforce
 
 
- 
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
2 
  

 Amortization expense
 
$
        1,487 
  
 
$
        1,645 
  
 
$
        1,737 
  

   (1)      The 2009 additions were in
connection with the 2009 FDIC-assisted acquisition of Founders Bank.
           

 Scheduled Amortization of Other Intangible Assets 
(Amounts in thousands)   








 
  
Total
 

 Year ending December 31,
  




 2012
  
 $
2,673 
  

 2013
  
 
3,101 
  

 2014
  
 
3,190 
  

 2015
  
 
2,639 
  

 2016
  
 
2,345 
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
1,405 
  


  
  
  
 

 Total 
  
 $
        15,353 
  


  
  
  
 
  


9.
DEPOSITS  Summary of
Deposits  (Amounts in thousands)   












 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Noninterest-bearing deposits
 
 $
3,244,307 
  
 
  $
2,253,661 
  

 Interest-bearing deposits
 
 
595,238 
  
 
 
616,761 
  

 Savings deposits
 
 
210,138 
  
 
 
190,685 
  

 Money market accounts
 
 
4,168,082 
  
 
 
4,631,138 
  

 Time deposits less than $100,000
 
 
308,041 
  
 
 
359,875 
  

 Time deposits of $100,000 or more (1)
 
 
1,867,048 
  
 
 
2,483,309 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deposits
 
 $
  10,392,854 
  
 
 $
  10,535,429 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   (1)       Includes deposits which, to the knowledge of the Company, have been placed with
the Bank by a person who acts as a broker in placing these deposits on behalf of others or are otherwise deemed to be “brokered” by bank regulatory rules and regulations such as the Company’s deposits under the CDARS® deposit
program (“Brokered Deposits”).
              

  111



Table of Contents
Maturities of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More (1) 
(Amounts in thousands)   








 
  
2011
 

 Maturing within 3 months
  
 $
629,461  
  

 After 3 but within 6 months
  
 
338,674  
  

 After 6 but within 12 months
  
 
482,258  
  

 After 12 months
  
 
416,655  
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 $
      1,867,048  
  


  
  
  
 
        (1)     Includes Brokered Deposits. 
 


10.
SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 
Summary of Short-Term Borrowings  (Dollars in thousands)   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
Rate
 
  
Amount
 
  
Rate
 

 FHLB advances
  
 $
156,000 
  
  
 
0.33% 
  
  
 $
117,620 
  
  
 
2.40% 
  

 Other
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
941 
  
  
 
- 
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




 Total short-term borrowings
  
 $
        156,000 
  
  



  
 $
        118,561 
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  










 Unused overnight federal funds availability (1)
  
 $
200,000 
  
  



  
 $
95,000 
  
  




 Borrowing capacity through the Federal Reserve Bank’s (“FRB”) discount window primary credit program (2)
  
 $
1,074,687 
  
  



  
 $
536,836 
  
  




 Unused FHLB advances availability
  
 $
261,490 
  
  



  
 $
n/a 
  
  




 Weighted average remaining maturity of FHLB advances at year end (in months)
  
 
1.8 
  
  



  
 
3.9 
  
  




   (1)       Our total availability of
overnight fed fund borrowings is not a committed line of credit and is dependent upon lender availability. (2) 
      Includes federal term auction facilities. Our borrowing capacity changes each quarter subject to available collateral and FRB discount factors.
n/a       Not applicable
             
            
          
 The amounts above include any unamortized premium or discount and fair value adjustments recognized in
connection with debt acquired through acquisitions.  During 2011, we became a member of the FHLB Chicago, establishing access
to additional FHLB borrowing capacity of $382.8 million at December 31, 2011, of which $261.5 million was available. Prior to becoming a member of the FHLB Chicago, we merged into The PrivateBank-Chicago former bank subsidiaries that were
member banks of the FHLB system. Advances prior to the merger of the banks, which as of December 31, 2011 comprise short-term and long-term advances of $35.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively, remain outstanding until maturity.
 FHLB advances reported as short-term borrowings represent advances with a remaining maturity of one year or less. Short-term
FHLB advances are secured by qualifying residential and multi-family mortgages. 
  112



Table of Contents


11.
LONG-TERM DEBT 
Long-Term Debt  (Dollars in thousands)   












 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Parent Company:
 



 




 3.21% junior subordinated debentures due 2034 (1)(a)
 
 $
8,248 
  
 
 $
8,248 
  

 2.26% junior subordinated debentures due 2035 (2)(a)
 
 
51,547 
  
 
 
51,547 
  

 2.05% junior subordinated debentures due 2035 (3)(a)
 
 
41,238 
  
 
 
41,238 
  

 10.00% junior subordinated debentures due 2068 (a)
 
 
143,760 
  
 
 
143,760 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
 
 
244,793 
  
 
 
244,793 
  

 Subsidiaries:
 



 




 FHLB advances
 
 
15,000 
  
 
 
50,000 
  

 4.08% subordinated debt facility due 2015 (4)(b)
 
 
120,000 
  
 
 
120,000 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
 
 
135,000 
  
 
 
170,000 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt
 
 $
    379,793 
  
 
 $
    414,793 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Weighted average interest rate of FHLB long-term advances at year end
 
 
4.42% 
  
 
 
4.39% 
  

 Weighted average remaining maturity of FHLB long-term advances at year end (in months)
 
 
49.2 
  
 
 
37.5 
  
  


 
(1)
 Variable rate in
effect at December 31, 2011, based on three-month LIBOR + 2.65%.   


 
(2)
 Variable rate in
effect at December 31, 2011, based on three-month LIBOR + 1.71%.   


 
(3)
 Variable rate in
effect at December 31, 2011, based on three-month LIBOR + 1.50%.   


 
(4)
 Variable rate in
effect at December 31, 2011, based on three-month LIBOR + 3.50%.   


 
(a)
 Qualifies as Tier
I capital for regulatory capital purposes; the capital qualification is grandfathered under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. 
 


 
(b)
 Effective in the
third quarter 2010, Tier II capital qualification was reduced by 20% of the total balance outstanding and annually thereafter will be reduced by an additional 20%. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, 60% and 80% of the balance
qualified as Tier II capital for regulatory capital purposes.  We have $244.8 million in junior subordinated
debentures issued to four separate wholly-owned trusts for the purpose of issuing Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Refer to Note 12 for further information on the nature and terms of these and previously issued
debentures.  FHLB long-term advances, which had a combination of fixed and floating interest rates, were secured by qualifying
residential and multi-family mortgages, state and municipal bonds and mortgage-related securities.  We have $120.0 million
outstanding under a 7-year subordinated debt facility due September 2015. The debt facility has a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR plus 3.50%, per annum, payable quarterly and re-prices quarterly. The debt may be prepaid at any time
prior to maturity without penalty and is subordinate to any future senior indebtedness.  We reclassify long-term debt to
short-term borrowings when the remaining maturity becomes less than one year.  Scheduled Maturities of Long-Term Debt
 (Amounts in thousands)   








 
  
Total
 

 Year ending December 31,
  




 2013
  
 $
            5,000  
  

 2014
  
 
2,000  
  

 2015
  
 
123,000  
  

 2016
  
 
-  
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
249,793  
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
 379,793  
  


  
  
  
 

  113



Table of Contents


12.
JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEFERRABLE INTEREST DEBENTURES HELD BY TRUSTS THAT ISSUED GUARANTEED CAPITAL DEBT SECURITIES 
As of December 31, 2011, we sponsored, and wholly owned, 100% of the common equity of four trusts that were formed for the purpose
of issuing Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (“Trust Preferred Securities”) to third-party investors and investing the proceeds from the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities solely in junior subordinated debt
securities of the Company (“Debentures”). The Debentures held by the trusts, which totaled $244.8 million, are the sole assets of each trust. Our obligations under the Debentures and related documents, taken together, constitute a full and
unconditional guarantee by the Company of the obligations of the trusts. The guarantee covers the distributions and payments on liquidation or redemption of the Trust Preferred Securities, but only to the extent of funds held by the trusts. We have
the right to redeem the Debentures in whole or in part, on or after specific dates, at a redemption price specified in the indentures plus any accrued but unpaid interest to the redemption date. We may also have the right to redeem the Debentures at
an earlier time, if future legislative or regulatory changes impact our capital treatment of the Trust Preferred Securities. We used the proceeds from the sales of the Debentures for general corporate purposes. 
Under current accounting rules, the trusts qualify as variable interest entities for which we are not the primary beneficiary and
therefore ineligible for consolidation. Accordingly, the trusts are not consolidated in our financial statements. The subordinated Debentures issued by us to the trusts are included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as
“long-term debt” with the corresponding interest distributions recorded as interest expense. The common shares issued by the trusts are included in other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition with the related
dividend distributions recorded in other non-interest income.  Common Securities, Preferred Securities, and Related
Debentures  (Amounts in thousands)   




































 
  
  
 
  
Principal Amount ofDebentures
(3)
 

 
  
IssuanceDate
 
  
CommonSecuritiesIssued
 
  
TrustPreferredSecuritiesIssued (1)
 
  
CouponRate
(2)
 
  
EarliestRedemptionDate (on orafter) (3)
 
  
Maturity
 
  
December 31,
 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Bloomfield Hills Statutory Trust I
  
 
May 2004 
  
  
 $
248 
  
  
$
8,000 
  
  
 
3.21% 
  
  
 
Jun. 17, 2009 
  
  
 
Jun. 2034 
  
  
 $
8,248 
  
  
$
8,248 
  

 PrivateBancorp Statutory Trust II
  
 
Jun. 2005 
  
  
 
1,547 
  
  
 
50,000 
  
  
 
2.26% 
  
  
 
Sep. 15, 2010 
  
  
 
Sep. 2035 
  
  
 
51,547 
  
  
 
51,547 
  

 PrivateBancorp Statutory Trust III
  
 
Dec. 2005 
  
  
 
1,238 
  
  
 
40,000 
  
  
 
2.05% 
  
  
 
Dec. 15, 2010 
  
  
 
Dec. 2035 
  
  
 
41,238 
  
  
 
41,238 
  

 PrivateBancorp Statutory Trust IV
  
 
May 2008 
  
  
 
10 
  
  
 
143,750 
  
  
 
10.00% 
  
  
 
Jun. 13, 2013 
  
  
 
Jun. 2068 
  
  
 
143,760 
  
  
 
143,760 
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  



  
 $
      3,043 
  
  
$
      241,750 
  
  



  



  



  
 $
    244,793 
  
  
$
    244,793 
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 The trust preferred securities accrue distributions at a rate equal to the interest rate and maturity identical to that of the related Debentures. The
trust preferred securities will be redeemed upon maturity of the related Debentures.   


 
(2) 
 Reflects the coupon rate in effect at December 31, 2011. The coupon rate for the Bloomfield Hills Statutory Trust I is a variable rate and is
based on three-month LIBOR plus 2.65%. The coupon rates for the PrivateBancorp Statutory Trusts II and III are at a variable rate based on three-month LIBOR plus 1.71% for Trust II and three-month LIBOR plus 1.50% for Trust III. The coupon rate for
the PrivateBancorp Statutory Trust IV is fixed. Distributions for all of the Trusts are payable quarterly. We have the right to defer payment of interest on the Debentures at any time or from time to time for a period not exceeding five years
provided no extension period may extend beyond the stated maturity of the Debentures. During such extension period, distributions on the trust preferred securities would also be deferred, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock would be
restricted. The Federal Reserve has the ability to prevent interest payments on the Debentures.   


 
(3) 
 The trust preferred securities are subject to mandatory redemption, in whole or in part, upon repayment of the Debentures at maturity or their earlier
redemption. Subject to restrictions relating to our participation in the TARP CPP, the Debentures are redeemable in whole or in part prior to maturity at any time after the dates shown in the table, and earlier at our discretion if certain
conditions are met, and, in any event, only after we have obtained Federal Reserve approval, if then required under applicable guidelines or regulations. 
  114



Table of Contents


13.
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  TARP
Capital Purchase Program  In January 2009, we issued 243,815 shares of fixed rate cumulative perpetual preferred
stock, Series B (“Series B Preferred Stock”) to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 for proceeds of $243.8 million. Cumulative dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock are payable at
5% per annum for the first five years and at a rate of 9% per annum thereafter. We are prohibited from paying any dividend with respect to shares of our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid in full on the Series B
Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods. The Series B Preferred Stock is non-voting, other than class voting rights on matters that could adversely affect the Series B Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Stock is callable at par after
three years. Prior to the end of three years, the Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemed with the proceeds from one or more qualified equity offerings of any Tier 1 perpetual preferred or common stock of at least $61.0 million (each a
“Qualified Equity Offering”). The redemption price is equal to the sum of the liquidation amount per share and any accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series B preferred Stock. The U.S. Treasury may also transfer the Series B Preferred
Stock to a third party at any time. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) requires the U.S. Treasury, subject to consultation with appropriate banking regulators, to permit
participants in the CPP to redeem preferred stock issued under the CPP without regard to whether the recipient has completed a Qualified Equity Offering or replaced such funds from any other source, or to any waiting period. 
In conjunction with the purchase of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock, the U.S. Treasury received a ten year warrant that
entitles it to purchase up to 1,290,026 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $28.35 per share. In December 2009, as a result of the completion of two qualified equity offerings, as provided by the terms of the warrant,
the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant was reduced by 50% from 1,290,026 to 645,013 shares. The ARRA provides that the U.S. Treasury may liquidate this warrant if we fully redeem the Series B Preferred Stock
either as a result of redemption by us at a market price determined under the warrant or sale by the U.S. Treasury to a third party.  The Series B Preferred Stock and the warrant issued under the CPP are accounted for as permanent equity on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. The allocated carrying values of the Series B
Preferred Stock and the warrant on the date of issuance (based on their relative fair values) were $236.3 million and $7.6 million, respectively. The Series B Preferred Stock and the warrant qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital. 
Under the terms of our agreements with the U.S. Treasury in connection with our participation in the CPP, we are not prohibited from
increasing quarterly common stock dividends at any time, but are precluded from raising the quarterly dividend above $0.075 per share prior to January 30, 2012. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, our ability to pay dividends is also
subject to regulatory restrictions resulting from the recent losses we have incurred. We must provide notice to and obtain approval from the FRB before declaring or paying any dividends. Dividends also may be limited as a result of safety and
soundness considerations. Our quarterly common stock dividend for each of the four quarters of 2011 was $0.01 per share.  Issuance of
Common Stock  There were no public or private offerings of common stock during 2011 or 2010 other than that issued in
connection with our share-based compensation plans. Refer to Note 16 for a detailed discussion of such plans. 
  115



Table of Contents
The following table presents a summary of the Company’s common stock offerings during
2009.  Summary of Common Stock Offerings  (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)   




















 
 
Common StockPublic Offering
 
 
    Non-voting    CommonStock
(1)
 
 
 
 

 
    May 2009    
 
 
    November    2009
 
 
November2009
 
 
    Total    
 

 Number of shares issued
 
 
11,600,000  
  
 
 
19,324,051  
  
 
 
1,330,720  
  
 
 
32,254,771  
  

 Underwriters overallotment:
 



 



 



 




 Fully exercised
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2,898,607  
  
 
 
254,159  
  
 
 
3,152,766  
  

 Partially exercised (of 1.74 million shares)
 
 
266,673  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
266,673  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shares issued
 
 
11,866,673  
  
 
 
22,222,658  
 (2) 
 
 
      1,584,879  
  
 
 
      35,674,210  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Price
 
 $
19.25  
  
 
 $
8.50  
  
 
 $
8.075  
 (3) 
 




 Proceeds, net of underwriters commissions but before offering expenses
 
 $
217,012  
  
 
 $
181,211  
  
 
 $
12,798  
  
 
 $
411,021  
  
  


 
(1) 
 Purchased by certain affiliates of GTCR Golder Raunder II, LLC (“GTCR”) through an exercise of its existing preemptive rights (based on the
November aggregate public offering amount, less the amount being purchased by GTCR in the offering, including the exercise by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares). The non-voting common stock converts into common stock on
a one-for-one basis.   


 
(2) 
 Includes 4.1 million shares, ($35.3 million) purchased by GTCR. 
 


 
(3) 
 Equals the public offering price less the underwriting discount per share. 
The net proceeds from the May and November 2009 public offerings, as well as from the sale of non-voting common stock, qualify as
tangible common equity and Tier 1 capital.  Issuance of Series A Preferred Stock and Conversion Transactions 
In June 2009, we amended our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to (1) create a new class of non-voting common stock
(the “Non-voting Common Stock”), and (2) amend and restate the Certificate of Designations of the Company’s Series A Junior Non-voting Preferred Stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) to provide, among other things,
that the shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible only into shares of Non-voting Common Stock. Under the amended terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, each share of Series A Preferred Stock was convertible into one share of Non-voting
Common Stock, each share of which is, in turn, convertible into one share of common stock. We issued 1,951,037 shares of Non-voting Common Stock to GTCR upon notice of conversion by GTCR of all of its 1,951.037 shares of Series A Preferred Stock.
The shares of Series A Preferred Stock held and converted by GTCR represented all of the issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock on such date. We also entered into an amendment to our existing Preemptive and Registration Rights
Agreement with GTCR pursuant to which we agreed, among other things, to register the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the newly issued shares of Non-voting Common Stock for resale under the Securities Act of 1933. 
  116



Table of Contents
Comprehensive Income  Components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  (Amounts in thousands)
  
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
UnrealizedGain (Loss) onAvailable-for-Sale Securities
 
  
AccumulatedGain (Loss)on EffectiveCash FlowHedges
 
  
Total
 
  
UnrealizedGain (Loss) onAvailable-for-Sale Securities
 
  
UnrealizedGain (Loss) onAvailable-for-Sale Securities
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
 $
20,078 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
20,078 
  
  
 $
27,896 
  
  
 $
27,568 
  

 Unrealized gains on securities
  
 
47,431 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
47,431 
  
  
 
359 
  
  
 
8,439 
  

 Unrealized gains on cash flow hedges
  
 
- 
  
  
 
3,156 
  
  
 
3,156 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Tax expense on unrealized gains
  
 
(18,869)
  
  
 
(1,256)
  
  
 
(20,125)
  
  
 
(108)
  
  
 
(3,246)
  

 Reclassification adjustment of net gains included in net income
  
 
(5,812)
  
  
 
(570)
  
  
 
(6,382)
  
  
 
(13,095)
  
  
 
(7,896)
  

 Reclassification adjustments for tax expense on realized net gains
  
 
2,312 
  
  
 
227 
  
  
 
2,539 
  
  
 
5,026 
  
  
 
3,031 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
 $
45,140 
  
  
 $
1,557 
  
  
 $
        46,697 
  
  
 $
20,078 
  
  
 $
27,896 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  117



Table of Contents
14. EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 
Basic and Diluted Earnings per Common Share  (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)   
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
  
        2010        

 
  
        2009        

 

 Basic earnings per common share
  



  



  




 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling interests
  
 $
44,370 
  
  
 $
1,517 
  
  
 $
(30,063)
  

 Preferred dividends and discount accretion of preferred stock
  
 
13,690 
  
  
 
13,607 
  
  
 
12,443 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders
  
 
30,680 
  
  
 
(12,090)
  
  
 
(42,506)
  

 Less: Earnings allocated to participating stockholders (1)
  
 
363 
  
  
 
62 
  
  
 
- 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings allocated to common stockholders
  
 $
30,317 
  
  
 $
(12,152)
  
  
 $
(42,506)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Weighted-average common shares outstanding
  
 
70,449 
  
  
 
70,024 
  
  
 
44,516 
  

 Basic earnings per common share
  
 $
0.43 
  
  
 $
(0.17)
  
  
 $
(0.95)
  






 Diluted earnings per common share
  



  



  




 Earnings allocated to common stockholders (2)
  
$
30,315 
  
  
 $
(12,152)
  
  
 $
(42,506)
  






 Weighted-average common shares outstanding (3):
  



  



  




 Weighted-average common shares outstanding
  
 
70,449 
  
  
 
70,024 
  
  
 
44,516 
  

 Dilutive effect of stock awards
  
 
193 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted-average diluted common shares outstanding
  
 
70,642 
  
  
 
70,024 
  
  
 
44,516 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per common share
  
 $
0.43 
  
  
 $
(0.17)
  
  
 $
(0.95)
  






 Antidilutive shares not included in diluted earnings per common share computation (3)(4):

  



  



  




 Stock options
  
 
3,525 
  
  
 
3,384 
  
  
 
5,253 
  

 Unvested stock/unit awards
  
 
195 
  
  
 
1,247 
  
  
 
1,656 
  

 Warrant related to the U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program
  
 
645 
  
  
 
645 
  
  
 
645 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total antidilutive shares
  
 
4,365 
  
  
 
5,276 
  
  
 
7,554 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are considered participating securities
(i.e., the Company’s deferred stock units and nonvested restricted stock awards and restricted stock units, excluding certain awards with forfeitable rights to dividends). 


 
(2) 
 Earnings allocated to common stockholders for basic and diluted earnings per share may differ under the two-class method as a result of adding
common stock equivalents for options and warrants to dilutive shares outstanding, which alters the ratio used to allocate earnings to common stockholders and participating securities for the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share.



 
(3) 
 Due to the net loss available to common stockholders reported for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, all potentially dilutive common
stock equivalents were excluded from the diluted net loss per share computation as their inclusion would have been antidilutive. 


 
(4) 
 For the year ended December 31, 2011, represents potentially dilutive common stock securities for which the exercise price for the stock
options and warrants and fair value of non-vested restricted stock/units was greater than the average market price of our common stock during the period. 
  118



Table of Contents
15. INCOME TAXES  Components of Income Taxes  (Amounts in thousands) 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
  
        2010        

 
  
        2009        

 

 Current tax provision:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
  $
19,529 
  
  
  $
13,278 
  
  
  $
39,476 
  

 State
  
 
4,406 
  
  
 
2,212 
  
  
 
4,770 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
23,935 
  
  
 
15,490 
  
  
 
44,246 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred tax provision (benefit):
  



  



  




 Federal
  
 
4,437 
  
  
 
(14,678)
  
  
 
(57,816)
  

 State
  
 
(2,712)
  
  
 
(2,549)
  
  
 
(6,994)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,725 
  
  
 
(17,227)
  
  
 
(64,810)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense (benefit)
  
  $
25,660 
  
  
  $
(1,737)
  
  
  $
(20,564)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Tax expense amounts of $2.6 million, $3.6 million and $1.1 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
are not included in the totals above and relate to the exercise and expiration of stock options and vesting of restricted stock. In accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance for share-based compensation, these amounts were
recorded directly to shareholders’ equity.  Reconciliation of Income Tax Provision to Statutory Federal Rate
 (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
  
        2010        

 
  
        2009        

 

 Income tax provision (benefit) at statutory federal income tax rate
  
  $
24,570  
  
  
  $
22  
  
  
  $
(17,633) 
  

 Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting from:
  



  



  




 Tax exempt income
  
 
(1,925) 
  
  
 
(2,338) 
  
  
 
(2,354) 
  

 Meals, entertainment and related expenses
  
 
547  
  
  
 
564  
  
  
 
511  
  

 Bank owned life insurance
  
 
(545) 
  
  
 
(610) 
  
  
 
(605) 
  

 Investment credits
  
 
(320) 
  
  
 
(351) 
  
  
 
(270) 
  

 Non-deductible compensation
  
 
1,987  
  
  
 
1,122  
  
  
 
1,140  
  

 State income taxes
  
 
3,480  
  
  
 
(219) 
  
  
 
(1,799) 
  

 Tax audit settlements
  
 
-  
  
  
 
518  
  
  
 
-  
  

 Deferred tax asset adjustment – Illinois tax rate change
  
 
(2,833) 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  

 Other
  
 
699  
  
  
 
(445) 
  
  
 
446  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total income tax provision (benefit)
  
  $
25,660  
  
  
  $
(1,737) 
  
  
  $
(20,564) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  119



Table of Contents
Differences between the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the
tax bases of assets and liabilities result in temporary differences for which deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recorded.  Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities  (Amounts in thousands) 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  




 Allowance for loan losses
  
  $
89,399  
  
  
  $
95,918  
  

 Share-based payment expenses
  
 
13,136  
  
  
 
13,125  
  

 Deferred compensation
  
 
9,693  
  
  
 
8,262  
  

 State net operating loss carryforwards
  
 
147  
  
  
 
255  
  

 Loan fees
  
 
19,161  
  
  
 
16,598  
  

 OREO write-downs
  
 
4,909  
  
  
 
3,519  
  

 Nonaccrual interest income
  
 
5,888  
  
  
 
6,102  
  

 Covered assets – loans and OREO
  
 
17,167  
  
  
 
26,556  
  

 Other
  
 
3,623  
  
  
 
4,770  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
163,123  
  
  
 
175,105  
  





 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



  




 Unrealized gain on securities available-for-sale
  
 
(29,297) 
  
  
 
(12,281) 
  

 Intangible assets and acquisition adjustments
  
 
(6,730) 
  
  
 
(7,649) 
  

 Loan costs
  
 
(1,676) 
  
  
 
(1,292) 
  

 Premises and equipment
  
 
(2,543) 
  
  
 
(2,098) 
  

 Covered assets – FDIC loss share receivable
  
 
(15,175) 
  
  
 
(25,215) 
  

 Other
  
 
(1,381) 
  
  
 
(247) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(56,802) 
  
  
 
(48,782) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
  $
    106,321  
  
  
  $
    126,323  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, we had state net operating loss carryforwards of $3.7 million, which are
available to offset future state taxable income and will begin to expire in 2028.  Deferred Tax Assets 
During the first three quarterly periods of 2011, we were in a cumulative pre-tax loss position for financial statement purposes,
measured on a trailing three-year basis. Under current accounting guidance, this represents significant negative evidence in the assessment of whether deferred tax assets will be realized. At December 31, 2011, we were no longer in a cumulative
book loss position. We have concluded that based on the weight provided by certain positive evidence (discussed below), it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. 
Taxable income in prior years and reversing deferred taxable income amounts provide sources from which deferred tax assets may be
absorbed. Most significantly, however, we have relied on our ability to generate future federal taxable income, exclusive of reversing temporary differences, as the primary source from which deferred tax assets will be absorbed. 
In making the determination at December 31, 2011 that it was more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized, we
considered the positive evidence associated with (a) taxable income generated in 2010 and 2011; (b) reversing taxable temporary differences in future periods; (c) our emergence from a cumulative book loss position in 2011;
(d) continued improvement in pre-tax, pre-loan loss provision earnings results during 2009-2011, a core source for future taxable income; (e) our reporting of pre-tax profits during most of 2010 and 2011; (f) the concentration of
credit losses in certain segments and vintages of our loan portfolio during the past three years and the relative moderation of credit trends in recent quarters; (g) our excess capital position relative to “well capitalized”
regulatory standards and other industry benchmarks; and (h) no history of federal net operating loss carryforwards and the availability of the 20-year federal net operating loss carryforward period. 
We considered negative evidence associated with the continuing challenging economic conditions as well as both positive and negative
evidence associated with: (a) our accuracy in forecasting operating income and credit costs; and (b) the estimated timing of 
  120



Table of Contents

reversals of deferred deductible and deferred taxable items and the level of such net reversal amounts relative to earnings assumptions in future periods. 
Certain of the factors noted above support our expectation of generating pre-tax book earnings in future periods. We believe this in turn
should give rise to taxable income levels (exclusive of reversing temporary differences) that more likely than not would be sufficient to absorb the deferred tax assets.  Liabilities Associated with Unrecognized Tax Benefits  A reconciliation of the
beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:  Roll Forward of Unrecognized Tax Benefits
 (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
 $
783 
  
  
 $
876 
  
  
 $
- 
  

 Additions for tax positions related to current year
  
 
- 
  
  
 
86 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Additions for tax positions related to prior years
  
 
12 
  
  
 
848 
  
  
 
876 
  

 Reductions for tax positions related to prior years
  
 
(42)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Reductions for lapse of statute of limitations
  
 
(254)
  
  
 
(250)
  
  
 
- 
  

 Reductions for settlements with tax authorities
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(777)
  
  
 
- 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
 $
        499 
  
  
 $
        783 
  
  
 $
        876 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Interest and penalties, net of tax effect, recognized in income tax (benefit) expense during the year
  
 $
(25)
  
  
 $
23 
  
  
 $
68 
  

 Interest and penalties, net of tax effect, accrued at year end (1)
  
 $
57 
  
  
 $
82 
  
  
 $
68 
  
  


 
(1)
 Not included in
the unrecognized tax benefits roll forward presented above  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, there
were $454,000 and $631,000, respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions that would favorably impact the effective tax rate, if recognized in future periods. While it is expected that the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits will change in the next twelve months, the Company does not anticipate this change will have a material impact on the results of operations or the financial position of the Company. 
We file a U.S. federal income tax return and state income tax returns in various states. We are no longer subject to examinations by U.S.
federal tax authorities for 2007 and prior years. We are also no longer subject to examinations by certain state departments of revenue for 2005 and prior years.  Illinois Tax Legislation  In January 2011, the state of Illinois
passed legislation that increased the corporate income tax rate from 7.3% to 9.5% (which includes a personal property replacement tax of 2.5%). The change is effective for tax years 2011 through 2014 with the rate declining to 7.75% in 2015 and
returning to the pre-2011 rate of 7.3% in 2025. As a result of this change, income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was reduced by $2.8 million for a one-time adjustment to the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax asset,
offset in part by higher Illinois tax expense on 2011 earnings.  16. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION AND OTHER BENEFITS 
Share-Based Plans 
2011 Incentive Compensation Plan (the “2011 Plan”) – In March 2011 the Board of Directors approved the 2011
Plan which was subsequently approved in May 2011 by the Company’s stockholders at the Company’s 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The 2011 Plan replaced the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the “2007 Plan”) and
allows for the issuance of incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units, equity-based performance stock and units, stock awards and other cash and stock-based incentives to
employees, including officers and directors of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
  121



Table of Contents
At December 31, 2011, the 2011 Plan remains the Company’s only share-based
compensation plan which allows for the granting of additional awards. At December 31, 2011, 4.7 million shares are available for future grant of which no more than 2.7 million remain available for issuance as restricted stock or
units. The number of shares that remain available for future grants also includes an indeterminate number of shares that may become available for re-issuance due to the recycling provisions under the 2011 Plan. To the extent shares of common stock
subject to an outstanding award under the 2011 Plan or the 2007 Plan are not issued or are cancelled by reason of the failure to earn the shares issuable under, or the forfeiture, termination, surrender, cancellation or expiration of such award,
then such shares shall, to the extent of the forfeiture, cancellation or expiration, again be available for grant under the 2011 Plan. Shares of common stock shall not again be available for issuance if those shares are surrendered or withheld as
payment of either the exercise price of an award or used for the payment of withholding taxes in respect of an award.  The
Company has four inactive plans for which no shares remain available for grant, but have unvested or unexercised awards outstanding at December 31, 2011.  Stock options that are issued to certain key employees vest generally over a period ranging from 3 to 5 years based on continuous service and have a 10-year term. All stock options granted under the plans
have an exercise price equal to the closing price of our common stock on the date the awards are granted. Although both incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options have been issued in the past, we have not issued incentive stock options
since 2005.  We may also issue common stock with restrictions to certain key employees and non-employee directors. The shares
are restricted as to transfer, but are not restricted as to voting rights and generally receive similar dividend payments as stockholders, although in certain cases dividends are not distributed until vesting. Other than in the case of salary stock
discussed below, the transfer restrictions generally lapse over a three-year period and are contingent upon continued employment and in certain cases on the satisfaction of specified performance criteria. We also issue restricted stock units which
settle in common stock when restrictions lapse. These units are issued on similar terms as restricted common stock but these instruments have no voting rights and receive dividend equivalents rather than dividends. 
Effective in 2010, the Company began paying a portion of the base salary of certain executives in shares of the Company’s common
stock (“salary stock”) under the 2007 Plan and effective in June 2011, the 2011 Plan. The salary stock is fully vested as of the grant date and has all of the rights of a stockholder, including the right to vote and receive dividends. As a
condition of receiving the salary stock, each executive has entered into an agreement with the Company providing that he/she may not sell or otherwise transfer the shares of salary stock for 24 months after issuance, except in the event of death or
disability. The salary stock is paid in installments, semi-monthly on each payroll date with the number of shares issued based on the closing price of the Company’s common stock as of each payroll date. The related expense is included in
salaries and employee benefits on the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Salary Stock Issued 
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)   












 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Amount of salary granted as stock awards, net of payroll tax withholding
  
  $
606    
  
  
  $
88    
  

 Number of shares of salary stock issued
  
 
54    
  
  
 
7    
  

 Weighted-average issuance price
  
  $
      11.26    
  
  
  $
      12.48    
  
 We issue shares to fulfill stock options exercises, deferred stock unit allocations, restricted stock
awards and unit vesting and salary stock awards from available authorized shares. At December 31, 2011, we believe there are adequate authorized shares to satisfy anticipated award issuances in 2012. 
  122



Table of Contents
Financial Statement Impact 
The Company recognizes share-based compensation expense based on the estimated fair value of the option or award at the date of grant or
modification. Share-based compensation costs are recorded as a component of salaries and employee benefits on the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Effect of Recognizing Share-based Compensation Expense  (Amounts in
thousands)   
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Recognized share-based compensation expense:
  



  



  




 Stock option expense
  
 $
6,717 
  
  
 $
7,815 
  
  
 $
10,215 
  

 Restricted stock and unit expense (including salary stock)
  
 
9,039 
  
  
 
9,287 
  
  
 
10,481 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total share-based compensation expense
  
 
15,756 
  
  
 
17,102 
  
  
 
20,696 
  

 Income tax benefit
  
 
(5,289)
  
  
 
(5,863)
  
  
 
(6,969)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Share-based compensation expense, net of tax
  
 $
        10,467 
  
  
 $
        11,239 
  
  
 $
        13,727 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Unrecognized share-based compensation expense:
  



  



  




 Stock options
  
 
8,022 
  
  
 
12,037 
  
  
 
20,767 
  

 Weighted-average amortization period remaining (in years)
  
 
1.4 
  
  
 
1.9 
  
  
 
2.8 
  

 Restricted stock and unit expense
  
 
11,745 
  
  
 
15,114 
  
  
 
16,070 
  

 Weighted-average amortization period remaining (in years)
  
 
1.5 
  
  
 
1.9 
  
  
 
2.6 
  

  123



Table of Contents
Stock Options  The following table summarizes our stock option activity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Stock Option Transactions  (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
  




















 
  
Options
 
  
Weighted-Average
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
(2)
 

  
  
ExercisePrice
 
  
RemainingContractualLife
(1)
 
  

 2009
  



  



  



  




 Outstanding at beginning of year
  
 
5,625  
  
  
  $
29.39  
  
  



  




 Granted(3)
  
 
281  
  
  
 
15.28  
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(127) 
  
  
 
8.75  
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(398) 
  
  
 
30.59  
  
  



  




 Expired
  
 
(130) 
  
  
 
30.72  
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  




 Outstanding at end of year
  
 
5,251  
  
  
  $
29.01  
  
  
 
            7.6  
  
  
  $
        312  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at end of year
  
 
1,714  
  
  
  $
29.50  
  
  
 
6.7  
  
  
  $
300  
  







 2010
  



  



  



  




 Outstanding at beginning of year
  
 
5,251  
  
  
  $
29.01  
  
  



  




 Granted (3)
  
 
79  
  
  
 
12.90  
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(42) 
  
  
 
4.77  
  
  



  




 Forfeited (4)
  
 
(1,580) 
  
  
 
29.57  
  
  



  




 Expired
  
 
(349) 
  
  
 
29.83  
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  




 Outstanding at end of year
  
 
        3,359  
  
  
  $
        28.59  
  
  
 
6.8  
  
  
  $
1,103  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at end of year
  
 
1,921  
  
  
  $
29.12  
  
  
 
6.4  
  
  
  $
758  
  







 2011
  



  



  



  




 Outstanding at beginning of year
  
 
3,359  
  
  
  $
28.59  
  
  



  




 Granted(3)
  
 
670  
  
  
 
14.80  
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(22) 
  
  
 
5.56  
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(192) 
  
  
 
25.05  
  
  



  




 Expired
  
 
(188) 
  
  
 
32.94  
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  




 Outstanding at end of year
  
 
3,627  
  
  
  $
26.15  
  
  
 
6.1  
  
  
  $
311  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at end of year
  
 
2,190  
  
  
  $
28.58  
  
  
 
5.1  
  
  
  $
236  
  

 Ending vested and expected to vest
  
 
3,529  
  
  
  $
26.28  
  
  
 
6.1  
  
  
  $
304  
  
  


 
(1) 
 Represents the average contractual life remaining in years. 
 


 
(2) 
 Aggregate intrinsic value represents the total pretax intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between our closing stock price on the last trading day
of the respective year and the option exercise price, multiplied by the number of shares) that would have been received by the option holders if they had exercised their options on the last day of the respective year. This amount will fluctuate with
changes in the fair value of our common stock. 


 
(3) 
 As a percentage of total stock options granted, 6% in 2011 and 15% in 2009 were granted to the Company’s named executive officers
(“NEOs”), as will be reported in its 2012 Proxy Statement. No stock options were granted to the NEOs in 2010.   


 
(4) 
 Includes 1.4 million stock options surrendered in connection with the 2010 award modifications as more fully discussed in the “Share-Based
Compensation Modification” section presented further in this Note. 
  124



Table of Contents
Summary of Stock Options Outstanding and Exercisable 
(Number of shares in thousands)   





000000000000



000000000000



000000000000



000000000000



000000000000


 
  
Outstanding Options
 
  
Exercisable Options
 

 Range of Exercise Price
  
Shares
 
  
    
Weighted-Average
 
  
Shares
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 

  
  
RemainingContractualLife (1)
 
  
ExercisePrice
 
  
  

 $6.92 - $16.48
  
 
884 
  
  
 
8.2 
  
  
  $
13.70 
  
  
 
221 
  
  
 $
11.39 
  

 $16.49 - $26.37
  
 
1,065 
  
  
 
5.4 
  
  
 
25.70 
  
  
 
715 
  
  
 
25.51 
  

 $26.38 - $32.19
  
 
818 
  
  
 
5.2 
  
  
 
29.93 
  
  
 
591 
  
  
 
29.96 
  

 $32.20 - $46.51
  
 
860 
  
  
 
5.5 
  
  
 
35.91 
  
  
 
663 
  
  
 
36.41 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
3,627 
  
  
 
6.1 
  
  
  $
26.15 
  
  
 
2,190 
  
  
 $
28.58 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Represents the weighted average contractual life remaining in years. 
Stock Option Valuation Assumptions - In accordance with current accounting guidance, we estimate the fair value of stock
options at the date of grant using a binomial option-pricing model that utilizes the assumptions outlined in the following table.  Stock Option Valuation Assumptions   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
            2011      
      
 
  
            2010      
      
 
  
            2009      
      
 

 Expected life of the option (in years)
  
 
4.5 – 5.5    
  
  
 
5.5 – 6.5    
  
  
 
5.0 - 6.6    
  

 Expected stock volatility
  
 
45.5 – 52.3%    
  
  
 
47.5 - 49.3%    
  
  
 
46.1 - 52.4%    
  

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.9 – 3.7%    
  
  
 
2.5 – 4.2%    
  
  
 
2.8 - 4.0%    
  

 Expected dividend yield
  
 
0.3 – 0.6%    
  
  
 
0.3 – 0.4%    
  
  
 
0.1 - 2.1%    
  

 Weighted-average fair value of options at their grant date
  
 $
6.80    
  
  
 $
6.29    
  
  
 $
7.58    
  
 Expected life is based on historical exercise and termination behavior. Expected stock price volatility
is based on historical volatility of our common stock combined with the implied volatility on the exchange traded stock options that are derived from the value of our common stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield currently
available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected life of the option. The expected dividend yield represents the most recent annual dividend yield as of the date of grant. Management reviews and adjusts the
assumptions used to calculate the fair value of an option on a periodic basis to better reflect expected trends.  Other
Stock Option Information  (Dollars in thousands) 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised
  
 $
        164    
  
  
 $
        321    
  
  
 $
        1,576    
  

 Cash received from stock options exercised
  
 $
126    
  
  
 $
201    
  
  
 $
1,073    
  

 Income tax benefit realized from stock options exercised
  
 $
47    
  
  
 $
76    
  
  
 $
236    
  

  125



Table of Contents
Restricted Stock and Restricted Unit Awards 
Restricted Stock and Unit Award Transactions  (Number of shares/units in thousands)   




























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Restricted Stock and Unit Awards (1)
  
Number of Shares/ Units
 
  
   Weighted-Average  Grant Date  Fair Value
 
  
Number of  Shares/Units  
 
  
Weighted-Average  Grant Date  Fair Value
 
  
Number  of Shares/  Units
 
  
Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value
 

 Nonvested restricted stock and unit awards at beginning of year
  
 
1,086 
  
  
  $
26.16 
  
  
 
1,543 
  
  
  $
21.62 
  
  
 
1,693 
  
  
  $
23.91 
  

 Granted (2) (3)
  
 
574 
  
  
 
14.36 
  
  
 
231 
  
  
 
13.80 
  
  
 
318 
  
  
 
15.08 
  

 Vested
  
 
(463)
  
  
 
25.08 
  
  
 
(513)
  
  
 
28.40 
  
  
 
(254)
  
  
 
25.56 
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(137)
  
  
 
25.40 
  
  
 
(175)
  
  
 
32.19 
  
  
 
(214)
  
  
 
30.07 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Nonvested restricted stock and unit awards at end of year
  
 
          1,060 
  
  
  $
    20.84 
  
  
 
        1,086 
  
  
  $
      26.16 
  
  
 
        1,543 
  
  
  $
     21.62 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Vested, but not issued at end of year
  
 
79 
  
  
 
17.85 
  
  
 
88 
  
  
 
16.10 
  
  
 
59 
  
  
 
29.60 
  
  


 
(1)
 Includes salary
stock awards.   


 
(2)
 As a percentage
of total restricted stock and unit awards granted, 19% in 2011, 3% in 2010 and 30% in 2009 were granted to the Company’s NEOs, as will be reported in its 2012 Proxy Statement. Excluding the stock awards granted as salary stock as part of
certain NEOs’ fixed compensation, 10%, 0% and 30% of the total restricted stock and unit awards were granted to the NEOs in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 


 
(3)
 Does not
include 937,182 awards modified in January 2010 of which 206,250 awards were granted to such NEOs. Refer to “Share-Based Compensation Award Modifications” in this footnote for further details. 
The fair value of restricted stock and units that vest based on service provided by the recipient is determined based on our closing
stock price on the date of grant and is recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period.  Other Restricted Stock
and Unit Award Information  (Dollars in thousands) 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Total fair value of vested/released restricted stock and units
  
 $
        5,536  
  
  
 $
        6,757  
  
  
 $
        3,710  
  

 Income tax benefit realized from vesting/release of restricted stock and unit awards
  
 $
        1,700  
  
  
 $
        2,067  
  
  
 $
        1,421  
  
 Upon the vesting/release of restricted stock and unit awards, the Company records an adjustment to its
deferred tax benefit previously recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income to reflect the actual tax benefit realized. The actual tax benefit realized is based on the fair value of the awards on the vesting/release date and the deferred tax
benefit is based on the fair value of the awards on the grant or modification date. The actual tax benefit realized for shares vesting or settling during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was less than the deferred tax benefit
for those shares, with the “shortfall” charged against prior years’ accumulated “excess” tax benefits maintained as a component of additional paid in capital in stockholders’ equity. The exercise or expiration of stock
options can also give rise to “shortfall” tax benefits. The total of such shortfall charges to stockholders’ equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $2.6 million, $3.6 million, and $1.1 million,
respectively. In addition, during 2011, $645,000 of the “shortfall” adjustment was included in income tax expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income as the balance in stockholders’ equity of the prior years’ accumulated
“excess” tax benefits was reduced to $0. The “shortfall” adjustments recorded over the past three years were primarily due to the decline in our stock price at the vest/release date compared to the stock price when the awards
were granted. 
  126



Table of Contents
Liability Awards  During 2011 we settled the share-based awards associated with the issuance of certain contractual “put” rights related to the minority interest owned by the principals of Lodestar. These awards
were settled in cash and accordingly were accounted as liability awards under current accounting guidance. Unlike equity awards, liability awards are re-measured at fair value at each reporting date until settlement, with the change in value
recognized in current period expense. The charge to expense was $197,000 and $399,000 for 2011 and 2010, respectively, and a contra expense of $100,000 in 2009. The awards were settled for $3.6 million. The Company has no other liability awards
outstanding at December 31, 2011.  Share-Based Compensation Award Modifications 
On December 29, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved changes to the vesting schedules of certain
equity awards previously granted to two executives of the Company to ensure that the vesting of such awards would comply with restrictions on incentive compensation applicable to certain of the most highly compensated employees of companies that
received funding under the U.S. Treasury’s TARP CPP. Among other requirements, the TARP rules generally prohibit the Company from paying or accruing incentive bonuses (except for TARP-compliant restricted stock) to its five most highly
compensated employees as calculated for purposes of the TARP rules (“MHCEs”). While neither of these two executives were considered an MCHE when the equity awards were granted in early 2011, the reported changes are being made because
it was anticipated they will be among the MHCEs for 2012.  The amended awards include 28,506 shares of restricted stock and
nonqualified stock options to purchase, at $14.99 per share, 47,650 shares of the Company’s common stock which were awarded to the two executives as part of the Company’s 2010 annual incentive bonus program and the 2011 long-term incentive
program. Both the options and restricted shares were scheduled to vest in three equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of their respective grant dates.  The amendments provide for (1) acceleration of the vesting dates of the options so that they vested 100% on December 29, 2011 and (2) restructuring of the restricted stock to be
TARP-compliant by pushing back the first vesting tranche of the restricted shares so that they will vest two-thirds on the second anniversary of their respective 2011 grant dates and one-third on the third anniversary. As a result of the accelerated
option vesting dates, the recognition of the expense associated with the full fair value of the options, $329,000, was accelerated into 2011, but such action did not create any additional overall expense for the Company. The modification to the
vesting dates for the restricted stock awards did not modify the fair value nor expense recognition of the fair value on such awards.  In 2010 the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors approved amendments to certain previously-granted performance share awards to modify the vesting provisions to provide for time vesting of the
awards rather than performance vesting based on certain stock price appreciation targets established in 2007. The performance shares were awarded in late-2007 and 2008 pursuant to our Strategic Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and the 2007 Plan
in connection with the recruitment or retention of key employees. Except for the change in vesting conditions, the amendments did not change the number of shares, the vesting schedule, continued service requirements or any other terms or conditions
set forth in the original awards.  A total of 127 employees’ awards were modified. The incremental cost of this
modification was $9.9 million that would be recognized from 2010 through 2012. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, we recognized $2.8 million and $3.0 million, respectively, net of forfeitures in share-based
compensation expense in connection with the modification of these awards.  There were no share-based compensation award modifications in 2009.
 Savings and Retirement Plan  The Company has a defined contribution retirement plan, The PrivateBancorp, Inc. Savings, Retirement and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the “KSOP”), which allows employees, at their option, to
make contributions up to 75% of compensation on a pre-tax basis and/or after-tax basis through salary deferrals under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. At the employees’ direction, employee contributions are invested among a
variety of investment alternatives. For employees who have met a one-year service requirement and make voluntary contributions to the KSOP, we contribute an amount equal to $0.50 for each dollar contributed up to 6% of an employee’s
compensation (subject to certain maximum compensation amounts as prescribed in Internal Revenue Service guidance). The Company’s matching contribution vests in increments of 20% annually for each year in which 1,000 hours are worked. The KSOP
also allows for a discretionary company contribution. Although no such contribution was made for 2011, 2010 or 2009, the discretionary component vests in increments of 20% annually over a period of 5 years based on the employee’s years of
service. 
  127



Table of Contents
KSOP Plan Information 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Company matching contribution
  
  $
1,931
  
  
  $
1,785
  
  
  $
1,463
  

 Number of Company shares held in KSOP
  
 
479
  
  
 
465
  
  
 
428
  

 Fair value of Company shares held by KSOP
  
  $
    5,261
  
  
  $
    6,681
  
  
  $
    3,839
  

 Dividends received
  
  $
20
  
  
  $
18
  
  
  $
14
  
 Deferred Compensation Plan  We maintain a non-qualified deferred compensation plan (the “Plan”) which allows eligible participants to defer the receipt of cash compensation or non-employee director fees otherwise payable
to them. The purpose of the Plan is to further our ability to attract and retain high quality executives and non-employee directors. Executive officers who participate in the Plan may elect to defer up to 50% of annual base salary and 100% of annual
bonus amounts and directors may elect to defer up to 100% of his or her annual director’s fees. Participants elect at the time amounts are deferred whether such deferral amounts will be credited with “earnings” as if they were
invested in either a fixed income account with interest credited based on our prime rate (not to exceed 120% of the applicable federal long-term rate) on the cash value of the funds deposited, or in deferred stock units (“DSUs”) in Company
stock with earnings credited in the form of dividends equivalent to that paid to our common stockholders. Except for an “earnings” credit on the deferred amounts, we do not provide any contributions or credits to participants under the
Plan. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were 128,026 and 72,947 DSUs, respectively, in the Plan. At the time of distribution, amounts credited in DSUs are paid in shares of our common stock while amounts credited in the fixed income account
are paid in cash. All elections and payments under the Plan are subject to compliance with requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code which may limit elections and require delay in payment of benefits in certain circumstances.
 17. REGULATORY AND CAPITAL MATTERS  The Company and the Bank are subject to various regulatory requirements that impose restrictions on cash, loans or advances, and dividends. The Bank is required to maintain reserves against deposits.
Reserves are held either in the form of vault cash or non-interest-bearing balances maintained with the FRB and are based on the average daily balances and statutory reserve ratios prescribed by the type of deposit account. 
Cash Restrictions  (Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Reserve balances required to be maintained with the FRB
  
  $
    50,682
  
  
  $
    33,027
  

 Cash and due from banks held as collateral for standby letter of credit services
  
  $
-
  
  
  $
22,000
  
 Under current FRB regulations, the Bank is limited in the amount it may loan or advance to the parent
company and its nonbank subsidiaries. Loans or advances to a single subsidiary may not exceed 10% and loans to all subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the Bank’s capital stock and surplus, as defined. Loans from the Bank to nonbank subsidiaries
and the parent company are also required to meet certain collateral requirements.  Various state banking regulations limit the
amount of dividends that may be paid to the parent company by the Bank. Dividend payments by the Bank are subject to regulatory approval and are contingent upon a number of factors including the Bank’s ability to meet applicable regulatory
capital requirements, the strength of the Bank’s balance sheet and its ability to support any projected growth, and the Bank’s profitability and earnings. No dividends were paid by the Bank to the parent company during 2011 or 2010. As of
December 31, 2011, the Bank had the capacity under banking regulation to pay dividends of $50.3 million, subject to prior regulatory approval and the Company’s internal capital policy. 
Under applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, the Company and the Bank are subject to various capital requirements adopted and
administered by the federal banking agencies. These guidelines specify minimum capital ratios calculated in accordance with the definitions in the guidelines, including the leverage ratio which is Tier 1 capital as a percentage of adjusted average
assets, 
  128



Table of Contents

and the Tier 1 capital ratio and the total capital ratio each as a percentage of risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items that have been weighted according to broad risk categories. These
minimum ratios are shown in the table below.  To satisfy safety and soundness standards, banking institutions are expected to
maintain capital levels in excess of the regulatory minimums depending on the risk inherent in the balance sheet, regulatory expectations and the changing risk profile of business activities and plans. Under our capital planning policy, we target
capital ratios at levels we believe are appropriate based on such risk considerations, taking into account the current operating and economic environment, internal risk guidelines, and our strategic objectives as well as regulatory expectations. At
the Bank, primarily due to our credit loss experience and recent levels of nonperforming loans, our policy currently calls for minimum capital ratios of 8.25% Tier 1 leverage and 12.0% total risk-based capital amongst other key capital metrics.
 As of December 31, 2011, the Company and the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject. As of
December 31, 2011, the most recent regulatory notification classified the Bank as “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. There are no conditions or events since that notification that
management believes would change the Bank’s classification for this purpose. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory, and possible discretionary, actions by regulators which, if undertaken, could have a
material effect on our consolidated financial statements.  The following table presents information about our capital measures and the related
regulatory capital guidelines.  Capital Measurements 
(Amounts in thousands, except for ratios)   




























 
  
Actual
 
  
FRB Guidelines forMinimum RegulatoryCapital
 
  
Regulatory MinimumFor “Well Capitalized”under FDICIA
 

 
  
Capital
 
  
Ratio
 
  
Capital
 
  
Ratio
 
  
Capital
 
  
Ratio
 

 As of December 31, 2011:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Total risk-based capital:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
$
    1,597,863  
  
  
 
14.28%  
  
  
$
        895,304  
  
  
 
8.00%  
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
1,413,862  
  
  
 
12.66     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  
  
$
    1,116,649  
  
  
 
10.00%  
  

 Tier 1 risk-based capital:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
 
1,384,924  
  
  
 
12.38     
  
  
 
447,652  
  
  
 
4.00     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
1,201,229  
  
  
 
10.76     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  
  
 
669,989  
  
  
 
6.00     
  

 Tier 1 leverage:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
 
1,384,924  
  
  
 
11.33     
  
  
 
488,851  
  
  
 
4.00     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
1,201,229  
  
  
 
9.85     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  
  
 
609,736  
  
  
 
5.00     
  









 As of December 31, 2010:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Total risk-based capital:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
$
1,571,619  
  
  
 
14.18%  
  
  
$
886,404  
  
  
 
8.00%  
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
1,363,054  
  
  
 
12.32     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  
  
$
1,106,185  
  
  
 
10.00%  
  

 Tier 1 risk-based capital:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
 
1,335,787  
  
  
 
12.06     
  
  
 
443,202  
  
  
 
4.00     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
1,127,448  
  
  
 
10.19     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  
  
 
663,711  
  
  
 
6.00     
  

 Tier 1 leverage:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated
  
 
1,335,787  
  
  
 
10.78     
  
  
 
495,873  
  
  
 
4.00     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  

 The PrivateBank
  
 
1,127,448  
  
  
 
9.11     
  
  
 
n/a  
  
  
 
n/a     
  
  
 
618,774  
  
  
 
5.00     
  
 n/a    Not applicable 
18. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS  We utilize an overall risk management strategy that incorporates the use of derivative instruments to reduce certain risks related to interest rate risk, as it relates to mortgage loan commitments and
planned sales, and foreign currency volatility. We also use these instruments to accommodate our clients as we provide them with risk management solutions. None of the above-mentioned end-user and client-related derivatives were designated as
hedging instruments at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  129



Table of Contents
Additionally, in July 2011, we initiated the use of interest rate derivatives as part of our
asset strategy to hedge interest rate risk in our loan portfolio which is comprised primarily of floating rate loans. These derivatives were designated as cash flow hedges.  Derivatives expose us to counterparty credit risk. Credit risk is managed through our standard underwriting process. Actual exposures are monitored against various types of credit limits established to
contain risk within parameters. Additionally, credit risk is managed through the use of collateral and netting agreements. 
Composition of Derivative Instruments  and Fair Value  (Amounts in thousands) 
 




































 
 
Asset Derivatives
 
 
Liability Derivatives
 

 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Notional/ContractAmount (1)
 
 
FairValue
 
 
Notional/ContractAmount (1)
 
 
FairValue
 
 
Notional/ContractAmount (1)
 
 
FairValue
 
 
Notional/ContractAmount (1)
 
 
FairValue
 

 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments (2):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate contracts
 
  $
200,000
  
 
  $
2,586 
  
 
  $
-
  
 
  $
- 
  
 
  $
-
  
 
  $
- 
  
 
  $
-
  
 
  $
- 
  

 Less: netting adjustments (3)
 



 
 
- 
  
 



 
 
- 
  
 



 
 
- 
  
 



 
 
- 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Total
 



 
 
2,586 
  
 



 
 
- 
  
 



 
 
- 
  
 



 
 
- 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Capital markets group derivatives (4):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate contracts
 
  $
  2,985,774
  
 
  $
    104,482 
  
 
  $
  3,028,827
  
 
  $
    102,386 
  
 
  $
  2,985,774
  
 
  $
  107,612 
  
 
  $
  3,028,827
  
 
  $
    104,799 
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
 
 
101,401
  
 
 
5,203 
  
 
 
109,956
  
 
 
4,069 
  
 
 
101,401
  
 
 
4,517 
  
 
 
109,956
  
 
 
3,416 
  

 Credit contracts (1)
 
 
43,218
  
 
 
12 
  
 
 
4,523
  
 
 
1 
  
 
 
94,921
  
 
 
32 
  
 
 
68,945
  
 
 
9 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
 



 
 
109,697 
  
 



 
 
106,456 
  
 



 
 
112,161 
  
 



 
 
108,224 
  

 Less: netting adjustments (3)
 



 
 
(8,021)
  
 



 
 
(6,206)
  
 



 
 
(8,021)
  
 



 
 
(6,206)
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Total
 



 
 
101,676 
  
 



 
 
100,250 
  
 



 
 
104,140 
  
 



 
 
102,018 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Other derivatives(2):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Foreign exchange contracts
 
  $
8,217
  
 
  $
196 
  
 
  $
4,425
  
 
  $
29 
  
 
  $
3,883
  
 
  $
26 
  
 
  $
-
  
 
  $
- 
  

 Mortgage banking derivatives
 



 
 
563 
  
 



 
 
221 
  
 



 
 
683 
  
 



 
 
280 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
 



 
 
759 
  
 



 
 
250 
  
 



 
 
709 
  
 



 
 
280 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
 



 
 
102,435 
  
 



 
 
100,500 
  
 



 
 
104,849 
  
 



 
 
102,298 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Grand total derivatives
 



 
  $
105,021 
  
 



 
  $
100,500 
  
 



 
  $
104,849 
  
 



 
  $
102,298 
  


 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 The remaining average notional amounts are shown for credit contracts. 
 


 
(2) 
 Derivative assets and liabilities designated as hedging instruments and other derivative assets and liabilities not designated as hedging
instruments are reported in other assets and other liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, respectively. 


 
(3) 
 Represents netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related cash collateral, with the same counterparty subject to master netting
agreements. Authoritative accounting guidance permits the netting of derivative receivables and payables when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company and a derivative counterparty. A master netting agreement is an
agreement between two counterparties who have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provide for the net settlement of contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or termination of any one
contract.   


 
(4) 
 Capital markets group asset and liability derivatives are reported separately on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.

  130



Table of Contents
Certain of our derivative contracts contain embedded credit risk contingent features that if
triggered either allow the derivative counterparty to terminate the derivative or require additional collateral. These contingent features are triggered if we do not meet specified financial performance indicators such as minimum capital ratios
under the federal banking agencies’ guidelines. All requirements were met at December 31, 2011. Details on these derivative contracts are set forth in the following table. 
Derivatives Subject to Credit Risk Contingency Features  (Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Fair value of derivatives with credit contingency features in a net liability position
  
 $
    56,586 
  
  
 $
    66,649 
  

 Collateral posted for those transactions in a net liability position
  
 $
56,082 
  
  
 $
70,334 
  

 If credit risk contingency features were triggered:
  



  




 Additional collateral required to be posted to derivative counterparties
  
 $
321 
  
  
 $
347 
  

 Outstanding derivative instruments that would be immediately settled
  
 $
48,677 
  
  
 $
52,354 
  
 Derivatives Designated in Hedge Relationships 
Our objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest income and to manage our exposure to interest rate
movements.  Cash flow hedges – During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, we entered into receive fixed/pay
variable interest rate swaps to convert certain floating-rate commercial loans to fixed rate in order to substantially reduce the variability in forecasted interest cash flows due to market interest rate changes. We use regression analysis to assess
the effectiveness of cash flow hedges at the inception of the hedge relationship and on an ongoing basis. Ineffectiveness is generally measured as the amount by which the cumulative change in fair value of the hedging instrument exceeds the present
value of the cumulative change in the hedged item’s expected cash flows. Measured ineffectiveness is recognized directly in other non-interest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The effective portion of the gains or losses on cash
flow hedges are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) and are subsequently reclassified to interest income on loans in the period that the hedged interest receipts affect earnings. As of December 31,
2011, the maximum length of time over which forecasted interest cash flows are hedged is seven years. There are no components of derivative gains or losses excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness related to our cash flow hedge strategy.
 Change in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
Related to Interest Rate Swaps Designated as Cash Flow Hedge  (Amounts in thousands)   








 
  
        2011        

 

 Unrealized gain at beginning of year
  
 $
- 
  

 Amount of gain recognized in AOCI
  
 
3,156 
  

 Amount reclassified from AOCI to interest income on loans
  
 
(570) 
  


  
  
  
 

 Unrealized gain at end of year
  
 $
2,586 
  


  
  
  
 
 As of December 31 2011, $1.1 million in net deferred gains, net of tax, recorded in AOCI are
expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next twelve months. This amount could differ from amounts actually recognized due to changes in interest rates, hedge de-designations, and the addition of other hedges subsequent to
December 31, 2011. 
  131



Table of Contents
Gain (Loss) Recorded in Consolidated Statements of Income 
and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Related to  Interest Rate Swaps Designated as Cash Flow Hedge  (Amounts in thousands)
  








 
  
Year Ended    December 31,    2011
 

 Amount of gain (loss), net of tax, recognized in AOCI (effective portion)
  
 $
        1,900  
  

 Amount of gain (loss), pre-tax, reclassified from AOCI to interest income on loans
  
 
570  
  

 Amount of gain (loss), pre-tax, recognized in other non-interest income (ineffective portion)
  
 
-  
  
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, there were no gains or losses from cash flow hedge
derivatives related to ineffectiveness that were reclassified to current earnings. We are required to reclassify such gains or losses related to ineffectiveness in circumstances where the original forecasted transaction is no longer probable of
occurring.  Derivatives Not Designated in Hedge Relationships 
End-User Derivatives – We enter into derivatives that include commitments to fund certain
mortgage loans to be sold into the secondary market and forward commitments for the future delivery of residential mortgage loans. It is our practice to enter into forward commitments for the future delivery of residential mortgage loans when
customer interest rate lock commitments are entered into to economically hedge the effect of changes in interest rates on our commitments to fund the loans as well as on our portfolio of mortgage loans held-for-sale. At December 31, 2011, we
had approximately $98.3 million of interest rate lock commitments and $130.3 million of forward commitments for the future delivery of residential mortgage loans with rate locks at rates consistent with the lock commitment. 
We are also exposed at times to foreign exchange risk as a result of issuing loans in which the principal and interest are settled in a
currency other than U.S. dollars. Currently our exposure is to the Euro and British pound on $12.1 million of loans and we manage this risk by using currency forward derivatives. 
Client Related Derivatives – We offer, through our capital markets group, over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange
derivatives to our clients, including but not limited to, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate options (also referred to as caps, floors, collars, etc.), foreign exchange forwards, and options as well as cash products
such as foreign exchange spot transactions. When our clients enter into an interest rate or foreign exchange derivative transaction with us, we mitigate our exposure to market risk through the execution of off-setting positions with inter-bank
dealer counterparties. Although the off-setting nature of transactions originated by our capital markets group limit our market risk exposure, they do expose us to other risks including counterparty credit, settlement, and operational risk.
 To accommodate our loan clients, we occasionally enter into risk participation agreements (“RPA”) with counterparty
banks to either accept or transfer a portion of the credit risk related to their interest rate derivatives. This allows clients to execute an interest rate derivative with one bank while allowing for distribution of the credit risk among
participating members. We have entered into written RPAs in which we accept a portion of the credit risk associated with a loan client’s interest rate derivative in exchange for a fee. We manage this credit risk through our loan underwriting
process, and when appropriate, the RPA is backed by collateral provided by our clients under their loan agreement.  The
current payment/performance risk of written RPAs is assessed using internal risk ratings which range from 1 to 8 with the latter representing the highest credit risk. The risk rating is based on several factors including the financial condition of
the RPA’s underlying derivative counterparty, present economic conditions, performance trends, leverage, and liquidity. 
The maximum potential amount of future undiscounted payments that we could be required to make under our written RPAs assumes that the
underlying derivative counterparty defaults and that the floating interest rate index of the underlying derivative remains at zero percent. In the event that we would have to pay out any amounts under our RPAs, we will seek to recover these from
assets that our clients pledged as collateral for the derivative and the related loan. 
  132



Table of Contents
Risk Participation Agreements 
(Dollars in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Fair value of written RPAs
  
 $
(32) 
  
  
 $
(9) 
  

 Range of remaining terms to maturity (in years)
  
 
Less than 1 to 4  
  
  
 
Less than 1 to 4  
  

 Range of assigned internal risk ratings
  
 
3 to 4  
  
  
 
3 to 5  
  

 Maximum potential amount of future undiscounted payments
  
 $
3,075  
  
  
 $
2,413  
  

 Percent of maximum potential amount of future undiscounted payments covered by proceeds from liquidation of pledged
collateral
  
 
55%  
  
  
 
80%  
  
 Gain (Loss) Recognized on Derivative Instruments 
Not Designated in Hedging Relationship  (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Gain on derivatives recognized in capital markets products income:
  



  




 Interest rate contracts
  
 $
    13,232 
  
  
 $
9,794 
  
  
 $
14,650 
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
5,719 
  
  
 
4,301 
  
  
 
2,433 
  

 Credit contracts
  
 
390 
  
  
 
191 
  
  
 
67 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total capital markets group derivatives
  
 
19,341 
  
  
 
14,286 
  
  
 
17,150 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gain (loss) on other derivatives recognized in other income, service charges and fees:
  



  




 Foreign exchange derivatives
  
 
141 
  
  
 
32 
  
  
 
(279)
  

 Mortgage banking derivatives
  
 
(57)
  
  
 
(171)
  
  
 
230 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other derivatives
  
 
84 
  
  
 
(139)
  
  
 
(49)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total derivatives
  
 $
19,425 
  
  
 $
    14,147 
  
  
 $
    17,101 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  133



Table of Contents
19. COMMITMENTS, GUARANTEES, AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
Credit Extension Commitments and Guarantees  In the normal course of business, we enter into a variety of financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk to meet the financing needs of our clients and to conduct lending activities. These
instruments principally include commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit, and commercial letters of credit. These instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount reflected in
the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.  Contractual or Notional Amounts of Financial Instruments
 (Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Commitments to extend credit:
  



  




 Home equity lines
  
 $
159,072  
  
  
 $
175,365  
  

 Residential 1-4 family construction - secured
  
 
34,167  
  
  
 
15,600  
  

 Commercial real estate - secured
  
 
539,667  
  
  
 
472,032  
  

 Commercial and industrial
  
 
3,197,347  
  
  
 
2,929,215  
  

 All other commitments
  
 
176,916  
  
  
 
278,825  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commitments to extend credit
  
 $
    4,107,169  
  
  
 $
    3,871,037  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Letters of credit:
  



  




 Financial standby
  
 $
341,502  
  
  
 $
265,675  
  

 Performance standby
  
 
26,212  
  
  
 
32,425  
  

 Commercial letters of credit
  
 
2,127  
  
  
 
115  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total letters of credit
  
 $
369,841  
  
  
 $
298,215  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of
any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and variable interest rates tied to the prime rate or LIBOR and may require payment of a fee. Since many of the commitments are
expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash-flow requirements. As of December 31, 2011, we had a reserve for unfunded commitments of $7.3 million, which reflects our
estimate of inherent losses associated with these commitment obligations. The reserve is recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.  Standby and commercial letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by us to guarantee the performance of a client to a third party. Standby letters of credit include performance and financial
guarantees for clients in connection with contracts between our clients and third parties. Standby letters of credit are agreements where we are obligated to make payment to a third party on behalf of a client in the event the client fails to meet
its contractual obligations. Commercial letters of credit are issued specifically to facilitate commerce and typically result in the commitment being drawn on when the underlying transaction is consummated between the client and the third party.
 In the event of a client’s nonperformance, our credit loss exposure is equal to the contractual amount of those
commitments. We manage this credit risk in a similar manner to evaluating credit risk in extending loans to clients under our credit policies. We use the same credit policies in making credit commitments as for on-balance sheet instruments,
mitigating exposure to credit loss through various collateral requirements, if deemed necessary. In the event of nonperformance by the clients, we have rights to the underlying collateral, which could include commercial real estate, physical plant
and property, inventory, receivables, cash and marketable securities.  The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by us
under standby letters of credit arrangements are equal to the contractual amount of the commitment. The unamortized fees associated with standby letters of credit, which are included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Condition, totaled $633,000 as of December 31, 2011. We amortize these amounts into income over the commitment period. As of December 31, 2011, standby letters of credit had a remaining weighted-average term of approximately 13 months,
with remaining actual lives ranging from less than 1 year to 19 years. 
  134



Table of Contents
Credit Card Settlement Guarantees 
Our third-party vendor issues corporate purchase credit cards on behalf of our commercial clients. The corporate purchase credit cards
are issued to employees of our commercial clients at the client’s direction and used for payment of business-related expenses. In most circumstances, these cards will be underwritten by our third-party vendor. However, in certain circumstances,
we may enter into a recourse agreement, which transfers the credit risk from the third-party vendor to us in the event that the licensee fails to meet its financial payment obligation. In these circumstances, a total exposure amount is established
for our corporate client. In addition to the obligations presented in the prior table, the maximum potential future payments guaranteed by us under this third-party settlement guarantee is $3.2 million at December 31, 2011. 
We believe that the estimated amounts of maximum potential future payments are not representative of our actual potential loss given our
insignificant historical losses from this third-party settlement guarantee program. As of December 31, 2011, we have not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for this settlement guarantee program, and
management believes that the probability of any payments under this arrangement is remote.  Mortgage Loans Sold with Recourse
 Certain mortgage loans sold have limited recourse provisions. We recorded no losses for the year ended
December 31, 2011 arising from limited recourse provisions. The losses for the year ended December 31, 2010 arising from limited recourse provisions were not material. Based on this experience, the Company has not established any liability
for potential future payments relating to mortgage loans sold in prior periods.  Legal Proceedings 
On October 22, 2010, a lawsuit was filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois against the Company on behalf of a
purported class of purchasers of our common stock between November 2, 2007 and October 23, 2009. Certain of our current and former executive officers and directors and firms that participated in the underwriting of our June 2008 and May
2009 public offerings of common stock were also named as defendants in the litigation. On January 25, 2011, the City of New Orleans Employees’ Retirement System and State-Boston Retirement System were together named as the lead plaintiff,
and an amended complaint was filed on February 18, 2011. The amended complaint alleged various claims of securities law violations against certain of the named defendants relating to disclosures we made during the class period in filings under
the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The plaintiffs sought class certification, compensatory damages in an unspecified amount, costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, and rescission. The defendants filed a
joint motion to dismiss seeking dismissal of all counts. On November 7, 2011, the court released its decision on the defendants’ motion and dismissed all counts of the complaint with prejudice. The plaintiffs did not appeal the
court’s decision.  As of December 31, 2011, there were various legal proceedings pending against the Company and its
subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business. Management does not believe that the outcome of these proceedings will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.  20. ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
We measure, monitor, and disclose certain of our assets and liabilities on a fair value basis. Fair value is used on a recurring basis to
account for securities available-for-sale, mortgage loans held for sale, derivative assets, derivative liabilities, and certain other assets and other liabilities. In addition, fair value is used on a non-recurring basis to apply
lower-of-cost-or-market accounting to foreclosed real estate and certain other loans held for sale, evaluate assets or liabilities for impairment, including collateral-dependent impaired loans, and for disclosure purposes. Fair value is defined as
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Depending on the nature of the asset or liability, we use various valuation techniques
and input assumptions when estimating fair value.  U.S. GAAP requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize
the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value and establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels based on the reliability of the input assumptions. The hierarchy gives the
highest priority to level 1 measurements and the lowest priority to level 3 measurements. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined as follows:   


 
•
 
 Level 1 – Unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets. 
  135



Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Level 2 – Observable inputs other than level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar instruments; quoted prices in markets that are not
active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 3 – Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or
liabilities.  The categorization of where an asset or liability falls within the hierarchy is based on the
lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.  Valuation Methodology 
We believe our valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants. However, the use of different
methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value. Additionally, the methods used may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net
realizable value or reflective of future fair values.  The following describes the valuation methodologies we use for assets
and liabilities measured at fair value, including the general classification of the assets and liabilities pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.  Securities Available-for-Sale – Securities available-for-sale include U.S. Treasury, collateralized mortgage obligations, residential mortgage-backed securities, state and municipal
securities, and foreign sovereign debt. Substantially all available-for-sale securities are fixed income instruments that are not quoted on an exchange, but may be traded in active markets. The fair value of these securities is based on quoted
market prices obtained from external pricing services. The principal markets for our securities portfolio are the secondary institutional markets, with an exit price that is predominantly reflective of bid level pricing in those markets. U.S.
Treasury securities have been classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Virtually all other remaining securities are classified in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. On a quarterly basis, the Company uses a variety of methods to validate
the overall reasonableness of the fair values obtained from external pricing services, including evaluating pricing service inputs and methodologies, using exception reports based on analytical criteria, comparing prices obtained to prices received
from other pricing sources, and reviewing the reasonableness of prices based on the Company’s knowledge of market liquidity and other market-related conditions. While our validation procedures may result in the use of a price obtained from our
primary pricing source or our secondary pricing source, we have not altered the fair values obtained from the external pricing services.  Mortgage Loans Held for Sale – Mortgage loans held for sale represent mortgage loan originations intended to be sold in the secondary market. On August 1, 2011, we elected the fair value
option for mortgage loans originated with the intention of selling to a third party bank that are originated as of or subsequent to this date. The election of the fair value option aligns the accounting for these loans with the related mortgage
banking derivatives used to economically hedge them. These mortgage loans are measured at fair value as of each reporting date, with changes in fair value recognized through mortgage banking non-interest income. Mortgage loans originated with the
intention of selling to a third party bank prior to August 1, 2011 were accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of mortgage loans held for sale is determined based on prices obtained for loans with similar
characteristics from third party sources. On a quarterly basis, the Company validates the overall reasonableness of the fair values obtained from third party sources by comparing prices obtained to prices received from various other pricing sources,
and reviewing the reasonableness of prices based on Company knowledge of market liquidity and other market-related conditions. Mortgage loans held for sale are classified in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Other Loans Held for Sale – Other loans held for sale represent other loans that management has an active plan to sell. Other
loans held for sale are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value, which is determined based on a variety of factors, including quoted market rates and our judgment of other relevant market conditions. Other loans held for sale are classified
in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  Collateral-Dependent Impaired Loans – We do not record loans at fair value
on a recurring basis. However, periodically, we record nonrecurring adjustments to reduce the carrying value of loans based on fair value measurement. Loans for which it is probable that payment of interest or principal will not be made in
accordance with the original contractual terms of the original loan agreement are considered impaired. Impaired loans for which repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the underlying collateral requires classification in the fair
value hierarchy. We measure the fair value of collateral-dependent impaired loans based on the fair value of the collateral securing these loans. Substantially all collateral-dependent impaired loans are secured by real estate with the fair value
generally determined based upon appraisals performed by a certified or licensed appraiser using inputs such as absorption rates, capitalization rates and comparables. We also consider other factors or recent developments that could result in
adjustments to the 
  136



Table of Contents

collateral value estimates indicated in the appraisals. Accordingly, fair value estimates for collateral-dependent impaired loans are classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The
carrying value of impaired loans and the related valuation allowance are disclosed in Note 4.  OREO – OREO is
valued on a nonrecurring basis using third-party appraisals of each property and our judgment of other relevant market conditions and is classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Covered Assets-Foreclosed Real Estate – Covered assets-foreclosed real estate is valued on a nonrecurring basis using
third-party appraisals of each property and our judgment of other relevant market conditions and is classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  Capital Market Derivative Assets and Derivative Liabilities – Client-related derivative instruments with positive fair values are reported as an asset and derivative instruments with negative
fair value are reported as liabilities, in both cases after taking into account the effects of master netting agreements. The fair value of client-related derivative assets and liabilities is determined based on prices obtained from third party
advisors using standardized industry models. Many factors affect derivative values, including the level of interest rates, the market’s perception of our nonperformance risk as reflected in our credit spread, and our assessment of counterparty
nonperformance risk. The nonperformance risk assessment is based on our evaluation of credit risk, or if available, on observable external assessments of credit risk. Values of client-related derivative assets and liabilities are primarily based on
observable inputs and are generally classified in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Level 3 derivatives include risk participation agreements and derivatives associated with clients whose loans are risk rated 6 or higher. Refer to “Credit
Quality Indicators” in Note 4 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” above for further discussion on risk ratings. On a quarterly basis, the Company uses a variety of methods to validate the overall reasonableness of the
fair values obtained from third party advisors, including evaluating inputs and methodologies used by the third party advisors, comparing prices obtained to prices received from other pricing sources, and reviewing the reasonableness of prices based
on Company knowledge of market liquidity and other market-related conditions. While we may challenge prices obtained from third party advisors based on our validation procedures, we have not altered the fair values ultimately provided by the third
party advisors.  Other Assets and Other Liabilities – Included in other assets and other liabilities are cash flow
hedges designated in a hedging relationship and other end-user derivative instruments that we use to manage our foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Those derivative instruments with a positive fair value are reported as assets and those with a
negative fair value are reported as liabilities. The fair value is determined based on prices obtained from third party advisors. These derivative assets and liabilities are classified in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. On a quarterly basis, the
Company uses a variety of methods to validate the overall reasonableness of the fair values obtained from third party advisors, including evaluating inputs and methodologies used by the third party advisors, comparing prices obtained to prices
received from other pricing sources, and reviewing the reasonableness of prices based on Company knowledge of market liquidity and other market-related conditions. While we may challenge prices obtained from third party advisors based on our
validation procedures, we have not altered the fair values ultimately provided by the third party advisors. 
  137



Table of Contents
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
The following table presents the hierarchy level and fair value for each major category of assets and liabilities measured at fair value
at December 31, 2011 and 2010 on a recurring basis.  Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis 
(Amounts in thousands)   




































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
QuotedPrices inActiveMarketsfor IdenticalAssets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)

 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
  
Total
 
  
QuotedPrices inActiveMarketsfor IdenticalAssets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)

 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
  
Total
 

 Assets:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Securities available-for-sale:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury
  
 $
61,521 
  
  
 $
-
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
61,521 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
- 
  

 U.S. Agencies
  
 
- 
  
  
 
10,034
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
10,034 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
10,426 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
10,426 
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations
  
 
- 
  
  
 
356,000
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
356,000 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
451,721 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
451,721 
  

 Residential mortgage- backed securities
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,189,213
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,189,213 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,247,031 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,247,031 
  

 State and municipal
  
 
- 
  
  
 
166,197
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
166,197 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
172,108 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
172,108 
  

 Foreign sovereign debt
  
 
- 
  
  
 
500
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
500 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
500 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
500 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities available-for-sale
  
 
61,521 
  
  
 
1,721,944
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,783,465 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,881,786 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
1,881,786 
  

 Mortgage loans held for sale
  
 
- 
  
  
 
32,049
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
32,049 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  

 Capital markets derivative assets (1)
  
 
- 
  
  
 
100,849
  
  
 
827 
  
  
 
101,676 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
95,596 
  
  
 
4,654 
  
  
 
100,250 
  

 Other assets (2)
  
 
- 
  
  
 
759
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
759 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
250 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
250 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
 $
61,521 
  
  
 $
1,855,601
  
  
 $
827 
  
  
 $
1,917,949 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
1,977,632 
  
  
 $
4,654 
  
  
 $
1,982,286 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 











 Liabilities:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Capital markets derivative liabilities
(1)
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
104,108
  
  
 $
32 
  
  
 $
104,140 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
102,009 
  
  
 $
9 
  
  
 $
102,018 
  

 Other liabilities (2)
  
 
- 
  
  
 
709
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
709 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
280 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
280 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
104,817
  
  
 $
32 
  
  
 $
104,849 
  
  
 $
- 
  
  
 $
102,289 
  
  
 $
9 
  
  
 $
102,298 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Capital markets derivative assets and derivative liabilities include client-related derivatives. 


 
(2) 
 Other assets and other liabilities include derivatives designated in hedging relationships, derivatives for commitments to fund certain mortgage
loans held for sale and end-user foreign exchange derivatives.  If a change in valuation techniques or input
assumptions for an asset or liability occurred between periods, we would consider whether this would result in a transfer between the three levels of the fair value hierarchy. There have been no significant transfers of assets or liabilities between
level 1 and level 2 of the valuation hierarchy between December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011.  Other than electing
the fair value option for mortgage loans held for sale, there have been no other changes in the valuation techniques and related inputs we used for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis from December 31, 2010 to
December 31, 2011. 
  138



Table of Contents
Reconciliation of Beginning and Ending Fair Value For Those 
Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
(Amounts in thousands)   
























 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
    Derivative    Assets
 
 
Derivative    (Liabilities)    
 
 
    State and      Municipal  
SecuritiesAvailable-For-Sale
 
 
  Derivative  Assets
 
 
Derivative  (Liabilities)  
 

 Balance at beginning of year
 
$
4,654 
  
 
$
(9)
  
 
$
3,615 
  
 
  $
1,468 
  
 
 $
(101)
  

 Total gains (losses):
 



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings (1)
 
 
(163)
  
 
 
377 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2,436 
  
 
 
170 
  

 Included in other comprehensive income
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  

 Purchases, issuances, sales and settlements:
 



 



 



 



 




 Purchases
 
 
-   
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  

 Issuances
 
 
42 
  
 
 
(30)
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(78)
  

 Sales
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(3,615)
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  

 Settlements
 
 
(3,490)
  
 
 
(370)
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(3,819)
  
 
 
-  
  

 Level 3 transfers (out) in
 
 
(216)
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
4,569 
  
 
 
-  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
 
$
827 
  
 
$
(32)
  
 
$
-  
  
 
  $
4,654 
  
 
 $
(9)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in unrealized gains (losses) in earnings relating to assets and liabilities still held at end of year
 
$
(304)
  
 
$
(377)
  
 
$
-  
  
 
  $
2,391 
  
 
 $
(165)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(1) 
 Amounts disclosed in this line are included in capital markets products income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, $845,000 and $8.9 million of derivative assets were transferred
from level 2 to level 3 of the valuation hierarchy due to a lack of observable market data, as there was deterioration in the credit risk of the derivative counterparty. Also, during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively,
$1.1 million and $4.3 million of derivative assets were transferred from level 3 to level 2 of the valuation hierarchy due to an improvement in the credit risk of the counterparty. We recognize transfers in and transfers out at the end of each
quarterly reporting period.  Financial Instruments Recorded Using the Fair Value Option 
Difference Between Aggregate Fair Value and Aggregate Remaining Principal Balance 
for Mortgage Loans Held For Sale Elected to be Carried at Fair Value 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
 
December 31, 2011
 

 
 
    Aggregate Fair    Value
 
 
    Difference    
 
 
  Aggregate Unpaid      Principal Balance    
 

 Mortgage loans held for sale (1)
 
  $
32,049  
  
 
  $
120  
  
 
  $
31,929  
  



 (1)    The change in fair value is reflected in mortgage banking non-interest income.

     
 As of December 31, 2011, none of the mortgage loans held for sale were nonaccrual loans or 90 days
or more past due and still accruing interest. Changes in fair value due to instrument-specific credit risk for the year ended December 31, 2011 were not material. 
  139



Table of Contents
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
The following table provides the fair value for each major category of assets measured at fair value at December 31, 2011 and 2010
on a nonrecurring basis. All fair value measurements on a nonrecurring basis were measured using level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  Fair Value Measurements on a Nonrecurring Basis  (Amounts in thousands)
  





$000,000,000



$000,000,000


 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Loans held for sale
 
  $
-  
  
 
  $
30,758  
  

 Collateral-dependent impaired loans, net of reserve for loan losses
 
 
223,640  
  
 
 
328,492  
  

 Covered assets - foreclosed real estate
 
 
30,342  
  
 
 
32,155  
  

 OREO
 
 
125,729  
  
 
 
88,728  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
  $
    379,711  
  
 
  $
    480,133  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Collateral-Dependent Impaired Loans 
(Amounts in thousands)   





$000,000,000



$000,000,000


 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Carrying value
 
  $
291,086  
  
 
  $
    398,015  
  

 Specific reserves (1)
 
 
(67,446) 
  
 
 
(69,523) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value
 
  $
    223,640  
  
 
  $
328,492  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





$000,000,000

$000,000,000



 (1)    Excludes specific reserves on non-collateral dependent impaired loans.
 There have been no changes in the valuation techniques and related inputs we used for assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 other than the previously discussed election of the fair value option for mortgage loans held for sale effective August 1, 2011.
Accordingly, mortgage loans held for sale are reported in the fair value measurements on a recurring basis tables.  Estimated Fair Value
of Certain Financial Instruments  U.S. GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair values of certain financial
instruments, both assets and liabilities, on and off-balance sheet, for which it is practical to estimate the fair value. Because the estimated fair values provided herein exclude disclosure of the fair value of certain other financial instruments
and all non-financial instruments, any aggregation of the estimated fair value amounts presented would not represent total underlying value. Examples of non-financial instruments having significant value include the future earnings potential of
significant customer relationships and the value of Trust and Investments’ operations and other fee-generating businesses. In addition, other significant assets including property, plant, and equipment and goodwill are not considered financial
instruments and, therefore, have not been valued.  Various methodologies and assumptions have been utilized in
management’s determination of the estimated fair value of our financial instruments, which are detailed below. The fair value estimates are made at a discrete point in time based on relevant market information. Because no market exists for a
significant portion of these financial instruments, fair value estimates are based on judgments regarding future expected economic conditions, loss experience, and risk characteristics of the financial instruments. These estimates are subjective,
involve uncertainties, and cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.  In addition to the valuation methodology explained above for financial instruments recorded at fair value, the following methods and assumptions were used in estimating the fair value of financial
instruments that are carried at cost in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.  Short-term financial assets
and liabilities – For financial instruments with a shorter-term or with no stated maturity, prevailing market rates, and limited credit risk, the carrying amounts approximate fair value. Those financial instruments include cash and due from
banks, federal funds sold and other short-term investments, accrued interest receivable, and accrued interest payable. 
  140



Table of Contents
Securities held-to-maturity – The fair value of securities held-to-maturity is
based on quoted market prices or dealer quotes. If a quoted market price is not available, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices for similar securities.  Non-marketable equity investments – Non-marketable equity investments include FHLB stock and other various equity securities. The carrying value of FHLB stock approximates fair value as the
stock is non-marketable, but can only be sold to the FHLB or another member institution at par. The carrying value of all other equity investments approximates fair value.  Loans – The fair value of loans is calculated by discounting scheduled cash flows through the estimated maturity using estimated market discount rates that reflect the credit and interest rate
risk inherent in the loan. The estimate of maturity is based on contractual terms and includes assumptions that reflect our and the industry’s historical experience with repayments for each loan classification. The estimation is modified, as
required, by the effect of current economic and lending conditions, collateral, and other factors.  Covered assets –
Covered assets include the acquired loans and foreclosed loan collateral (including the fair value of expected reimbursements from the FDIC). The fair value of covered assets is calculated by discounting expected cash flows through the estimated
maturity using estimated market discount rates that reflect the credit and interest rate risk inherent in the asset. The estimate of maturity is based on contractual terms and includes assumptions that reflect our and the industry’s historical
experience with repayments for each asset classification. The estimate is modified, as required, by the effect of current economic and lending conditions, collateral, and other factors. 
Investment in BOLI – The fair value of our investment in BOLI is equal to its cash surrender value. 
Deposit liabilities – The fair values disclosed for noninterest-bearing demand deposits, savings deposits, interest-bearing
deposits, and money market deposits are equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts). The fair value for certificates of deposit and brokered deposits were estimated using present value techniques by
discounting the future cash flows. The discount rate is estimated using the rates currently offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.  Short-term borrowings – The fair value of repurchase agreements and FHLB advances with the remaining maturities of one year or less is estimated by discounting the obligations using the rates
currently offered for repurchase agreements or borrowings of similar remaining maturities. The carrying amounts of funds purchased and other borrowed funds approximate their fair value due to their short-term nature. 
Long-term debt – The fair value of subordinated debt, FHLB advances with remaining maturities greater than one year, and the
junior subordinated debentures are estimated by discounting future cash flows using current interest rates for similar financial instruments.  Commitments – Given the limited interest rate exposure posed by the commitments outstanding at period-end due to their variable rate structure, termination clauses provided in the agreements,
and the market rate of fees charged, we have deemed the fair value of commitments outstanding to be immaterial. 
  141



Table of Contents
Financial Instruments 
(Amounts in thousands)   




















 
 
As of
 

 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
      Carrying      Amount
 
 
Estimated      
Fair Value      
 
 
      Carrying      Amount
 
 
Estimated      
Fair Value      
 

 Financial Assets:
 



 



 



 




 Cash and due from banks
 
 $
156,131 
  
 
 $
156,131 
  
 
 $
112,772 
  
 
 $
112,772 
  

 Federal funds sold and other short-term investments
 
 
205,610 
  
 
 
205,610 
  
 
 
541,316 
  
 
 
541,316 
  

 Loans held for sale
 
 
32,049 
  
 
 
32,049 
  
 
 
30,758 
  
 
 
30,758 
  

 Securities available-for-sale
 
 
1,783,465 
  
 
 
1,783,465 
  
 
 
1,881,786 
  
 
 
1,881,786 
  

 Securities held-to-maturity
 
 
490,143 
  
 
 
493,230 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Non-marketable equity investments
 
 
43,604 
  
 
 
43,604 
  
 
 
23,537 
  
 
 
23,537 
  

 Loans, net of allowance for loan losses and unearned fees
 
 
8,816,967 
  
 
 
8,465,358 
  
 
 
8,891,536 
  
 
 
8,535,266 
  

 Covered assets, net of allowance for covered loan losses
 
 
280,868 
  
 
 
306,976 
  
 
 
381,876 
  
 
 
400,783 
  

 Accrued interest receivable
 
 
35,732 
  
 
 
35,732 
  
 
 
33,854 
  
 
 
33,854 
  

 Investment in BOLI
 
 
50,966 
  
 
 
50,966 
  
 
 
49,408 
  
 
 
49,408 
  

 Capital markets derivative assets
 
 
101,676 
  
 
 
101,676 
  
 
 
100,250 
  
 
 
100,250 
  

 Financial Liabilities:
 



 



 



 




 Deposits
 
 $
10,392,854 
  
 
 $
10,405,158 
  
 
 $
10,535,429 
  
 
 $
10,549,930 
  

 Short-term borrowings
 
 
156,000 
  
 
 
156,047 
  
 
 
118,561 
  
 
 
120,522 
  

 Long-term debt
 
 
379,793 
  
 
 
343,121 
  
 
 
414,793 
  
 
 
414,340 
  

 Accrued interest payable
 
 
5,567 
  
 
 
5,567 
  
 
 
5,968 
  
 
 
5,968 
  

 Capital markets derivative liabilities
 
 
104,140 
  
 
 
104,140 
  
 
 
102,018 
  
 
 
102,018 
  
  


21.
OPERATING SEGMENTS  We
have three primary operating segments: Banking and Trust and Investments, each of which are delineated by the products and services that each segment offers, and the Holding Company. The Banking operating segment includes commercial and personal
banking services, which includes mortgage originations. Commercial banking services are primarily provided to corporations and other business clients and include a wide array of lending and cash management products. Personal banking services offered
to individuals, professionals, and entrepreneurs include direct lending and depository services. The Trust and Investments segment includes certain activities of our PrivateWealth group, including investment management, investment advisory, personal
trust and estate administration, custodial and escrow, retirement account administration, and brokerage services. The activities of the third operating segment, the Holding Company, include the direct and indirect ownership of our banking and
nonbanking subsidiaries, the issuance of debt and intersegment eliminations.  The accounting policies of the individual
operating segments are the same as those of the Company as described in Note 1. Transactions between operating segments are primarily conducted at fair value, resulting in profits that are eliminated from consolidated results of operations.
Financial results for each segment are presented below. For segment reporting purposes, the statement of financial condition of Trust and Investments is included with the Banking segment. 
  142



Table of Contents
Operating Segments Performance 
(Amounts in thousands)   




















Year Ended December 31,
 
    Banking    
 
 
Trust and  Investments  

 
 
HoldingCompanyand Other  Adjustments (1)
 
 
  Consolidated  
 

 2011
 



 



 



 




 Net interest income (loss)
 
 $
423,657  
  
 
  $
2,466  
  
 
 $
(18,996) 
  
 
 $
407,127  
  

 Provision for loan and covered loan losses
 
 
132,897  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
132,897  
  

 Non-interest income
 
 
79,990  
  
 
 
18,130  
  
 
 
127  
  
 
 
98,247  
  

 Non-interest expense
 
 
258,578  
  
 
 
19,203  
  
 
 
24,496  
  
 
 
302,277  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before taxes
 
 
112,172  
  
 
 
1,393  
  
 
 
(43,365) 
  
 
 
70,200  
  

 Income tax provision (benefit)
 
 
40,263  
  
 
 
555  
  
 
 
(15,158) 
  
 
 
25,660  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
 
71,909  
  
 
 
838  
  
 
 
(28,207) 
  
 
 
44,540  
  

 Noncontrolling interest expense
 
 
-  
  
 
 
170  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
170  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling interests
 
 $
71,909  
  
 
 $
668  
  
 
 $
(28,207) 
  
 
 $
44,370  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Assets
 
 $
11,034,516  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
1,382,354  
  
 
 $
12,416,870  
  

 Total loans
 
 
9,008,561  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
9,008,561  
  

 Deposits
 
 
10,542,517  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(149,663) 
  
 
 
10,392,854  
  







 2010
 



 



 



 




 Net interest income
 
 $
420,609  
  
 
 $
2,622  
  
 
 $
(22,274) 
  
 
 $
400,957  
  

 Provision for loan and covered loan losses
 
 
194,541  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
194,541  
  

 Non-interest income
 
 
74,954  
  
 
 
18,127  
  
 
 
165  
  
 
 
93,246  
  

 Non-interest expense
 
 
249,749  
  
 
 
20,317  
  
 
 
29,532  
  
 
 
299,598  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before taxes
 
 
51,273  
  
 
 
432  
  
 
 
(51,641) 
  
 
 
64  
  

 Income tax provision (benefit)
 
 
17,585  
  
 
 
168  
  
 
 
(19,490) 
  
 
 
(1,737) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
 
33,688  
  
 
 
264  
  
 
 
(32,151) 
  
 
 
1,801  
  

 Noncontrolling interest expense
 
 
-  
  
 
 
284  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
284  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling interests
 
 $
33,688 
  
 
 $
(20) 
  
 
 $
(32,151) 
  
 
 $
1,517  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Assets
 
 $
11,180,923  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
1,284,698  
  
 
 $
12,465,621  
  

 Total loans
 
 
9,114,357  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
9,114,357  
  

 Deposits
 
 
10,720,500  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(185,071) 
  
 
 
10,535,429  
  







 2009
 



 



 



 




 Net interest income
 
 $
347,121  
  
 
 $
2,824  
  
 
 $
(24,961) 
  
 
 $
324,984  
  

 Provision for loan and covered loan losses
 
 
199,419  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
199,419  
  

 Non-interest income
 
 
56,475  
  
 
 
14,775  
  
 
 
220  
  
 
 
71,470  
  

 Non-interest expense
 
 
199,077  
  
 
 
15,516  
  
 
 
32,822  
  
 
 
247,415  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before taxes
 
 
5,100  
  
 
 
2,083  
  
 
 
(57,563) 
  
 
 
(50,380) 
  

 Income tax provision (benefit)
 
 
251  
  
 
 
809  
  
 
 
(21,624) 
  
 
 
(20,564) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
 
4,849  
  
 
 
1,274  
  
 
 
(35,939) 
  
 
 
(29,816) 
  

 Noncontrolling interest expense
 
 
-  
  
 
 
247  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
247  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling interests
 
 $
4,849  
  
 
 $
1,027  
  
 
 $
(35,939) 
  
 
 $
(30,063) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Assets
 
 $
    10,782,845  
  
 
 $
-  
  
 
 $
1,249,739  
  
 
 $
12,032,584  
  

 Total loans
 
 
9,046,625  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
9,046,625  
  

 Deposits
 
 
10,130,346  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(238,432) 
  
 
 
9,891,914  
  
  


    
(1)
 Deposit amounts represent the elimination of Holding Company cash accounts included in total deposits of the Banking segment.

  143



Table of Contents


22.
VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES  As discussed in Note 12, we sponsor and wholly own 100% of the common equity of four trusts that were formed for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities to third-party investors and investing
the proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities solely in debentures issued by the Company. The trusts’ only assets as of December 31, 2011 were the $244.8 million principal balance of the debentures and the related interest
receivable. The trusts meet the definition of a VIE, but the Company is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts and accordingly, the trusts are not consolidated in our financial statements. 
We hold certain investments in funds that make investments in accordance with the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act. Such
investments have a carrying amount of $2.6 million at December 31, 2011 and are included within non-marketable equity investments in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. The investments meet the definition of a VIE, but the
Company is not the primary beneficiary as we are a limited investor in those investment funds and do not have the power over their investment activities. Accordingly, we will continue to account for our interests in these investments using the cost
or equity method. Our maximum exposure to loss is limited to the carrying amount plus additional required future capital contributions of $1.6 million as of December 31, 2011. 
 


23.
CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  The following represents the condensed financial statements of PrivateBancorp, Inc., the parent company.  Statements of Financial Condition  (Parent Company only) 
(Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Assets
  



  




 Cash and interest-bearing deposits
  
$
149,662  
  
  
$
185,071  
  

 Investment in and advances to subsidiaries
  
 
1,357,850  
  
  
 
1,260,112  
  

 Other assets
  
 
39,251  
  
  
 
33,543  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
1,546,763  
  
  
$
1,478,726  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Equity
  



  




 Long-term debt
  
$
244,793  
  
  
$
244,793  
  

 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
5,218  
  
  
 
6,056  
  

 Equity
  
 
1,296,752  
  
  
 
1,227,877  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
    1,546,763  
  
  
$
    1,478,726  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  144



Table of Contents
Statements of Income 
(Parent Company only)  (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
 
Years ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Income
 



 



 




 Interest income
 
  $
19  
  
 
  $
46  
  
 
  $
44  
  

 Securities transactions and other income
 
 
125  
  
 
 
165  
  
 
 
220  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income
 
 
144  
  
 
 
211  
  
 
 
264  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses
 



 



 




 Interest expense
 
 
16,532  
  
 
 
19,652  
  
 
 
22,128  
  

 Salaries and other employee benefits
 
 
18,081  
  
 
 
21,314  
  
 
 
23,462  
  

 Other expenses
 
 
6,415  
  
 
 
8,218  
  
 
 
9,360  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
41,028  
  
 
 
49,184  
  
 
 
54,950  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss before income taxes and equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
 
 
(40,884) 
  
 
 
(48,973) 
  
 
 
(54,686) 
  

 Income tax benefit
 
 
14,169  
  
 
 
18,453  
  
 
 
20,459  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss before undistributed income of subsidiaries
 
 
(26,715) 
  
 
 
(30,520) 
  
 
 
(34,227) 
  

 Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
 
 
71,255  
  
 
 
32,321  
  
 
 
4,411  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
 
44,540  
  
 
 
1,801  
  
 
 
(29,816) 
  

 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
170  
  
 
 
284  
  
 
 
247  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling interests
 
 
44,370  
  
 
 
1,517  
  
 
 
(30,063) 
  

 Preferred stock dividend
 
 
13,690  
  
 
 
13,607  
  
 
 
12,443  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gain (loss) available to common stockholders
 
  $
        30,680  
  
 
  $
        (12,090) 
  
 
  $
        (42,506) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  145



Table of Contents
Statements of Cash Flows 
(Parent Company only)  (Amounts in thousands)   
















 
 
Years ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Operating Activities
 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
 
 $
44,540  
  
 
 $
1,801  
  
 
 $
(29,816) 
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
 



 



 




 Equity in undistributed income from subsidiaries
 
 
(71,255) 
  
 
 
(32,321) 
  
 
 
(4,411) 
  

 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
15,756  
  
 
 
17,102  
  
 
 
20,696  
  

 Depreciation of premises, furniture and equipment
 
 
306  
  
 
 
326  
  
 
 
335  
  

 Net (increase) decrease in other assets
 
 
(6,014) 
  
 
 
(5,023) 
  
 
 
15,646  
  

 Net decrease in other liabilities
 
 
(746) 
  
 
 
(1,624) 
  
 
 
(1,686) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities
 
 
(17,413) 
  
 
 
(19,739) 
  
 
 
764  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing Activities
 



 



 




 Net capital investments in bank subsidiaries
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(15,000) 
  
 
 
(281,000) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(15,000) 
  
 
 
(281,000) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing Activities
 



 



 




 Repayment of debt
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(135,000) 
  

 Proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock and common stock warrant
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
243,815  
  

 Proceeds from (payments for) the issuance of common stock
 
 
31 
  
 
 
(178) 
  
 
 
409,655  
  

 Stock repurchased in connection with benefit plans
 
 
(1,400) 
  
 
 
(1,565) 
  
 
 
(1,204) 
  

 Cash dividends paid
 
 
(15,128) 
  
 
 
(15,122) 
  
 
 
(11,628) 
  

 Exercise of stock options and restricted share activity
 
 
1,139  
  
 
 
1,807  
  
 
 
1,126  
  

 Shortfall tax benefit from exercise of stock options and release of restricted share activity
 
 
(2,638) 
  
 
 
(3,564) 
  
 
 
(1,135) 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
 
 
(17,996) 
  
 
 
(18,622) 
  
 
 
505,629  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(35,409) 
  
 
 
(53,361) 
  
 
 
225,393  
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
185,071  
  
 
 
238,432  
  
 
 
13,039  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
 $
    149,662  
  
 
 $
185,071  
  
 
 $
238,432  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  146



Table of Contents


24.
QUARTERLY EARNINGS PERFORMANCE (UNAUDITED)  Quarterly Earnings Performance (1) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)   




































 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 











 
 
Fourth
 
 
Third
 
 
Second
 
 
First
 
 
Fourth
 
 
Third
 
 
Second
 
 
First
 











 Interest income
 
 $
    119,648 
  
 
 $
    118,894 
  
 
 $
    119,745 
  
 
 $
    122,859 
  
 
 $
    122,838 
  
 
 $
    124,641 
  
 
 $
    131,672 
  
 
 $
    128,774 
  











 Interest expense
 
 
16,666 
  
 
 
17,805 
  
 
 
19,242 
  
 
 
20,306 
  
 
 
22,491 
  
 
 
25,682 
  
 
 
28,340 
  
 
 
30,455 
  











 Net interest income
 
 
102,982 
  
 
 
101,089 
  
 
 
100,503 
  
 
 
102,553 
  
 
 
100,347 
  
 
 
98,959 
  
 
 
103,332 
  
 
 
98,319 
  











 Provision for loan and covered loan losses
 
 
31,611 
  
 
 
32,615 
  
 
 
31,093 
  
 
 
37,578 
  
 
 
35,166 
  
 
 
41,435 
  
 
 
45,392 
  
 
 
72,548 
  











 Fee revenue
 
 
25,029 
  
 
 
23,265 
  
 
 
20,922 
  
 
 
23,260 
  
 
 
25,556 
  
 
 
20,331 
  
 
 
20,138 
  
 
 
15,039 
  











 Net securities gains (losses)
 
 
364 
  
 
 
4,370 
  
 
 
670 
  
 
 
367 
  
 
 
9,309 
  
 
 
3,029 
  
 
 
(185)
  
 
 
29 
  











 Non-interest expense
 
 
76,230 
  
 
 
75,034 
  
 
 
75,664 
  
 
 
75,349 
  
 
 
82,148 
  
 
 
68,077 
  
 
 
76,002 
  
 
 
73,371 
  











 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
20,534 
  
 
 
21,075 
  
 
 
15,338 
  
 
 
13,253 
  
 
 
17,898 
  
 
 
12,807 
  
 
 
1,891 
  
 
 
(32,532)
  











 Income tax provision (benefit)
 
 
9,468 
  
 
 
7,593 
  
 
 
6,320 
  
 
 
2,279 
  
 
 
5,919 
  
 
 
4,786 
  
 
 
(766)
  
 
 
(11,676)
  











 Net income (loss)
 
 
11,066 
  
 
 
13,482 
  
 
 
9,018 
  
 
 
10,974 
  
 
 
11,979 
  
 
 
8,021 
  
 
 
2,657 
  
 
 
(20,856)
  











 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
7 
  
 
 
33 
  
 
 
58 
  
 
 
72 
  
 
 
67 
  
 
 
71 
  
 
 
76 
  
 
 
70 
  











 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling interests
 
 
11,059 
  
 
 
13,449 
  
 
 
8,960 
  
 
 
10,902 
  
 
 
11,912 
  
 
 
7,950 
  
 
 
2,581 
  
 
 
(20,926)
  











 Preferred stock dividends and discount accretion
 
 
3,430 
  
 
 
3,426 
  
 
 
3,419 
  
 
 
3,415 
  
 
 
3,409 
  
 
 
3,405 
  
 
 
3,399 
  
 
 
3,394 
  











 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders
 
 $
7,629 
  
 
 $
10,023 
  
 
 $
5,541 
  
 
 $
7,487 
  
 
 $
8,503 
  
 
 $
4,545 
  
 
 $
(818)
  
 
 $
(24,320)
  

  
 











 Basic earnings per share
 
 $
0.11 
  
 
 $
0.14 
  
 
 $
0.08 
  
 
 $
0.10 
  
 
 $
0.12 
  
 
 $
0.06 
  
 
 $
(0.01)
  
 
 $
(0.35)
  











 Diluted earnings per share
 
 $
0.11 
  
 
 $
0.14 
  
 
 $
0.08 
  
 
 $
0.10 
  
 
 $
0.12 
  
 
 $
0.06 
  
 
 $
(0.01)
  
 
 $
(0.35)
  

  
 











 Return on average common equity
 
 
2.86%
  
 
 
3.80%
  
 
 
2.18%
  
 
 
3.03%
  
 
 
3.31%
  
 
 
1.77%
  
 
 
-0.33%
  
 
 
-9.86%
  











 Return on average assets
 
 
0.36%
  
 
 
0.44%
  
 
 
0.29%
  
 
 
0.35%
  
 
 
0.38%
  
 
 
0.25%
  
 
 
0.08%
  
 
 
-0.68%
  











 Net interest margin – tax- equivalent
 
 
3.48%
  
 
 
3.49%
  
 
 
3.36%
  
 
 
3.46%
  
 
 
3.33%
  
 
 
3.28%
  
 
 
3.39%
  
 
 
3.33%
  

  
 
  


 
(1)
     All ratios are presented on an annualized basis.

  147



Table of Contents
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
 ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  Not applicable.  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES  As of the end of the period covered by this report (the “Evaluation Date”), the Company carried out
an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that as of the Evaluation Date, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2011
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
Management’s Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as defined
in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company’s management and board of directors regarding the preparation and
fair presentation of published financial statements.  Management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth in “Internal Control – Integrated
Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, management has determined that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 was
effective based on the specified criteria.  Ernst & Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that
audited the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011. That report, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, is included in this Item under the heading “Attestation Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm.”  Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of PrivateBancorp, Inc.  We have audited
PrivateBancorp, Inc.’s and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). PrivateBancorp, Inc. and subsidiaries’ management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  148



Table of Contents
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, PrivateBancorp, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statements of financial condition of PrivateBancorp, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of
PrivateBancorp, Inc. and our report dated February 27, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  /S/ ERNST &
YOUNG LLP  Chicago, Illinois 
February 27, 2012 
  149



Table of Contents
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
None.  
PART III  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 Certain information regarding our executive officers is included under “Executive Officers” in Part 1,
Item 1of this Form 10-K and the information included therein is incorporated herein by reference.  Information regarding
our directors will be included in our Proxy Statement to be filed for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”) under the heading “Election of Directors” and the information to be included therein is
incorporated herein by reference.  Information regarding our directors’ and executive officers’ compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act will be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” and the information to be included therein is incorporated herein by reference.
 Information regarding the Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors and the procedures by which our
stockholders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors, and information regarding the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and its “audit committee financial expert”, will be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading
“Corporate Governance” and the information to be included therein is incorporated herein by reference.  We have
adopted a Code of Ethics as required by the NASDAQ listing standards and the rules of the SEC. The Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors, officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and employees. The Code
of Ethics is publicly available on our website at www.pvtb.com or at www.theprivatebank.com. If we make substantive amendments to the Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, that applies to any of our directors or
executive officers, we will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website or in a report on Form 8-K in accordance with applicable NASDAQ and SEC rules.  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
Information regarding compensation of our executive officers and directors is included in the Proxy Statement under the headings
“Compensation Discussion and Analysis”, “Executive Compensation”, and “Director Compensation” and the information included therein is incorporated herein by reference. 
The information required by this item regarding Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation is included under the heading
“Executive Compensation – Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the Proxy Statement, and the Compensation Committee Report is included in the Proxy Statement under the heading “Compensation Committee
Report.” The information included therein is incorporated herein by reference.  ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENTAND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  Information regarding
security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is included in the Proxy Statement under the heading “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners, Directors and Executive Officers” and the information included therein is
incorporated herein by reference. 
  150



Table of Contents
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 
The following table sets forth information, as of December 31, 2011, relating to our equity compensation plans pursuant to which
equity awards are authorized for issuance.   
















 
 
Equity Compensation Plan Information
 

Equity Compensation Plan Category
 
 Number of securities 
 to be issued upon  exercise of outstanding
options, warrants, and rights  (a) 
 
 
 Weighted-average  exercise
price of  outstanding options,  warrants, and rights  (b) 
 
 
 Number of securities 
remaining available forfuture issuance
under equity compensation plans (excluding securitiesreflected in column (a))(c)
 

 Approved by security holders (1)
 
 
1,833,024  
  
 
  $
21.31  
  
 
 
4,744,632   
  

 Not approved by security holders (2)
 
 
1,921,745  
  
 
 
29.03  
  
 
 
-   
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
3,754,769  
  
 
  $
25.26  
  
 
 
4,744,632   
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   








 (1)  
 
 Includes all outstanding options and awards
under our 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan, 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, Stock Incentive Plan, the Incentive Compensation Plan, and shares underlying deferred stock units credited under our Deferred Compensation Plan, payable on a
one-for-one basis in shares of our common stock (the “Plans”). Additional information and details about the Plans are also disclosed in Note 16 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form
10-K.  
 


 (2)  
 
 Includes all outstanding options and awards under the Strategic Long Term Incentive
Plan. Additional information and details about the Plans are also disclosed in Note 16 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
 

 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR
 INDEPENDENCE  Information regarding certain relationships and related party transactions is included in our Proxy Statement under the heading “Transactions with Related Persons” and the information included
therein is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding our directors and their independence is included in the Proxy Statement under the heading “Corporate Governance” and the information included therein is incorporated herein
by reference.  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
Information regarding the fees we paid our independent accountants, Ernst & Young LLP, during 2011 is included in the Proxy
Statement under the heading “Principal Accounting Firm Fees” and the information included therein is incorporated herein by reference.  PART IV 
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
 






 (a) (1)
 
Financial Statements





 
The following consolidated financial statements of the Registrant and its subsidiaries are filed as a part of this document under “Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.”





 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.





 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.





 
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009.





 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009.





 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009.





 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




 (a) (2)
 
Financial Statement Schedules
  151



Table of Contents







 
All financial statement schedules for the Registrant and its subsidiaries required by Item 8 and Item 15 of this Form 10-K are omitted because of the absence of conditions
under which they are required, or because the information is set forth in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.




 (a) (3)
 
Exhibits





 
See Exhibit Index filed at the end of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.  PRIVATEBANCORP, INC.  Registrant   











 
 By:
 
 /S/ LARRY D. RICHMAN
 



 

 
Larry D. Richman
 



 

 
President and Chief Executive Officer
 








 
 Date:
 
February 27, 2012
 

 POWER OF ATTORNEY  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints Larry D. Richman and Jennifer R. Evans, and each of them, the true and lawful
attorney-in-fact and agents of the undersigned, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same,
with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and hereby grants to such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every
act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully as to all intents and purposes as each of the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or
his substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 27, 2012.   











 
Signatures
 

 
        Title







 
 /S/ LARRY D. RICHMAN
 

 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


 
Larry D. Richman
 

 








 
 /S/ KEVIN M. KILLIPS
 

 
 Chief Financial Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer


 
Kevin M. Killips
 

 








 
 /S/ JAMES M. GUYETTE
 

 
Chairman and Director


 
James M. Guyette
 

 








 
 /S/ NORMAN R. BOBINS
 

 
Director


 
Norman R. Bobins
 

 








 
 /S/ ROBERTG F. COLEMAN
 

 
Director


 
Robert F. Coleman
 

 








 
 /S/ RALPH B. MANDELL
 

 
Director


 
Ralph B. Mandell
 

 








 
 /S/ CHERYL MAYBERRY MCKISSACK
 

 
Director


 
Cheryl Mayberry McKissack
 

 

  152



Table of Contents











 
 /S/ JAMES B. NICHOLSON
 

 
 Director


 
James B. Nicholson
 

 








 
 /S/ EDWARD W. RABIN
 

 
 Director


 
Edward W. Rabin
 

 








 
 /S/ COLLIN E. ROCHE
 

 
 Director


 
Collin E. Roche
 

 








 
 /S/ WILLIAM R. RYBAK
 

 
 Director


 
William R. Rybak
 

 








 
 /S/ ALEJANDRO SILVA
 

 
 Director


 
Alejandro Silva
 

 


  153



Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






ExhibitNumber
 
Description of Documents




     3.1
 
 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of PrivateBancorp, Inc., dated June 24, 1999, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-25887) filed on May 14, 2003.




     3.2
 
 Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of PrivateBancorp, Inc., as amended, dated June 17, 2009, is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on June 19, 2009.




     3.3
 
 Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of PrivateBancorp, Inc., as amended, dated June 15, 2010, is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 9, 2010.




     3.4
 
 Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of PrivateBancorp, Inc., as amended, dated June 17, 2009, amending and
restating the Certificate of Designations of the Series A Junior Non-Voting Preferred Stock of PrivateBancorp, Inc., is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on June 19,
2009.




     3.5
 
 Certificate of Designations of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, dated January 28, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on February 3, 2009.




     3.6
 
 Amended and Restated By-laws of PrivateBancorp, Inc. are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.5 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-34066)
filed on March 1, 2010.




     4.1
 
 Certain instruments defining the rights of the holders of certain securities of PrivateBancorp, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, none of which authorize a
total amount of securities in excess of 10% of the total assets of PrivateBancorp, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, have not been filed as exhibits. PrivateBancorp, Inc. hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any of these agreements to
the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.




     4.2
 
 Form of Preemptive and Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 26, 2007 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on November 27, 2007.




     4.3
 
 Amendment No. 1 to Preemptive and Registration Rights Agreement dated as of June 17, 2009 by and among PrivateBancorp, Inc., GTCR Fund IX/A, L.P., GTCR Fund
IX/B, L.P., and GTCR Co-Invest III, L.P., is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on June 19, 2009.




     4.4
 
 Warrant dated January 30, 2009, as amended, issued by PrivateBancorp, Inc. to the United States Department of the Treasury to purchase shares of common stock of
PrivateBancorp, Inc. is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on February 3, 2009.




   10.1
 
 Lease agreement for 120 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois dated as of April 25, 2008, as amended, by and between TR 120 S. LaSalle Corp and The PrivateBank
and Trust Company is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-25887) filed on August 11, 2008.




   10.2
 
 Subordinated Term Loan Agreement dated as of September 26, 2008 among The PrivateBank and Trust Company, the Lenders From Time to Time Party Thereto and SunTrust
Bank, as Administrative Agent, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on October 2, 2008.
  154



Table of Contents









   10.3
 
 Form of Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 26, 2007 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File
No. 000-34066) filed on November 27, 2007.




   10.4
 
 Letter Agreement including the Securities Purchase Agreement – Standard Terms attached thereto, dated January 30, 2009, between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and the
United States Department of the Treasury, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Preferred Stock and the Warrant is herein incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on February 3,
2009.




   10.5
 
 Letter Agreement dated as of June 17, 2009 by and among PrivateBancorp, Inc., GTCR Fund IX/A, L.P., GTCR Fund IX/B, L.P. and GTCR Co-Invest III, L.P. is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-34066) filed on June 19, 2009.




   10.6
 
 Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 2, 2009 among PrivateBancorp, Inc. and GTCR Fund IX/A, L.P., GTCR Fund IX/B, L.P. and GTCR Co-Invest III, L.P. is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on November 4, 2009.




   10.7
 
 PrivateBancorp, Inc. Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement for its 2005 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders (File No. 000-25887) filed on March 11, 2005.




   10.8
 
 PrivateBancorp, Inc. Strategic Long-Term Incentive Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form S-8 Registration Statement (File No.
333-147451) filed on November 16, 2007.




   10.9
 
 PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form S-8 Registration Statement (File
No. 333-151178) filed on May 23, 2008.




   10.10
 
 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on March 10, 2005.




   10.11
 
 Form of Director Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on March 10, 2005.




   10.12
 
 Form of Non-qualified Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-25887) filed on November 9, 2006.




   10.13
 
 Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-25887) filed on November 9, 2006.




   10.14
 
 Form of Inducement Performance Share Award Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Strategic Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on February 29, 2008.




   10.15
 
 Form of Nonqualified Inducement Performance Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Strategic Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan is herein
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on February 29, 2008.




   10.16
 
 Form of Nonqualified Inducement Time-Vested Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Strategic Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan is
incorporated herein by
  155



Table of Contents







 
 reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on February 29, 2008.




   10.17
 
 Form of non-employee Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 11, 2008.




   10.18
 
 Form of Employee Non-qualified Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 11, 2008.




   10.19
 
 Form of Employee Restricted Stock Award Agreement for Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan
is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 11, 2008.




   10.20
 
 Form of Employee Restricted Stock Award Agreement for Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan
is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 11, 2008.




   10.21
 
 Form of Amendment Agreement dated as of January 28, 2010 by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and certain officers including Larry D. Richman, C. Brant Ahrens,
Bruce R. Hague and Bruce S. Lubin to amend each such officer’s agreements evidencing an award of performance shares granted under the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Strategic Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and/or the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2007
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on March 1, 2010.




   10.22
 
 Form of Indemnification Agreement by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and its directors and executive officers is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.10 to the Form S-1/A Registration Statement (File No. 333-77147) filed on June 15, 1999.




   10.23
 
 Employment Term Sheet Agreement between Ralph B. Mandell and PrivateBancorp, Inc. dated December 14, 2007 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6
to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on February 29, 2008.




   10.24
 
 Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and Ralph B.
Mandell effective as of March 30, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on May 8, 2009.




   10.25
 
 Amendment to Term Sheet Agreement dated as of February 12, 2010, by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and Ralph B. Mandell is incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on May 10, 2010.




   10.26
 
 Employment Term Sheet Agreement among Larry D. Richman, PrivateBancorp, Inc. and The PrivateBank and Trust Company dated October 30, 2007 is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on February 29, 2008.




   10.27
 
 Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and Larry D.
Richman effective as of March 30, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on May 8, 2009.




   10.28(a)
 
 Employment Term Sheet Agreement among C. Brant Ahrens, PrivateBancorp, Inc. and The PrivateBank and Trust Company dated November 7, 2007.




   10.29
 
 Employment Term Sheet Agreement among Bruce R. Hague, PrivateBancorp, Inc. and The
  156



Table of Contents







 
 PrivateBank and Trust Company dated October 25, 2007 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No.
000-25887) filed on February 29, 2008.




   10.30
 
 Employment Term Sheet Agreement among Bruce S. Lubin, PrivateBancorp, Inc. and The PrivateBank and Trust Company dated October 24, 2007 is incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on February 29, 2008.




   10.31
 
 Term Sheet Agreement dated July 7, 2008 between The PrivateBank and Trust Company and Norman R. Bobins is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-25887) filed on November 10, 2008.




   10.32
 
 Amendment to Term Sheet Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2010, by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and Norman R. Bobins is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.34 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 1, 2011.




   10.33
 
 Employment Term Sheet Agreement among Kevin M. Killips, PrivateBancorp, Inc. and The PrivateBank and Trust Company dated February 6, 2009 is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-25887) filed on February 9, 2009.




   10.34
 
 Salary Stock Award Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2010, by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and Kevin M. Killips is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on May 10, 2010.




   10.35
 
 Form of Senior Executive Officer Letter Agreement and Waiver executed by each of the following as required pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement dated
January 30, 2009 entered into between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and the United States Department of the Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program: Larry D. Richman, Bruce Lubin, Bruce Hague, C. Brant Ahrens, and Ralph B. Mandell, is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-34066) filed on March 2, 2009.




   10.36
 
 TARP Compensation Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2011, by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and the Chief Executive Officer is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on May 9, 2011.




   10.37
 
 TARP Compensation Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2011, by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and Bruce R. Hague is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on May 9, 2011.




   10.38
 
 PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders (File No. 001-34066) filed on April 14, 2011.




   10.39
 
 Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 9, 2011.




   10.40
 
 Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2011 Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 9, 2011.




   10.41(a)
 
 Form of Amendment Agreement to Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the PrivateBancorp, Inc. 2011 Compensation Plan by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and
each of Bruce Lubin and Kevin Killips, effective December 29, 2011.




   10.42
 
 Consulting Agreement by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and Ralph B. Mandell, dated June 1, 2011 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 9, 2011.




   10.43
 
 LDR TARP Deferred Payment Trust by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and GreatBanc
Trust
  157



Table of Contents







 
 Company, dated June 17, 2011 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on
August 9, 2011.




  10.44
 
 BRH TARP Deferred Payment Trust by and between PrivateBancorp, Inc. and GreatBanc Trust Company, dated June 17, 2011 is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on August 9, 2011.




  10.45
 
 Summary of Compensation Arrangement with Norman R. Bobins, adopted July 2011, effective as of January 1, 2011 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1
to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on November 8, 2011.




  10.46
 
 Employee Leasing Agreement by and between The PrivateBank and Trust Company and Norman Bobins Consulting LLC, entered into October 2011, effective as of January
1, 2011 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-34066) filed on November 8, 2011.




  11
 
 Statement re: Computation of Per Share Earnings - The computation of basic and diluted earnings per share is included in Note 14 of the Company’s Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this report on Form 10-K.




  12 (a)
 
 Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.




  21 (a)
 
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant.




  23 (a)
 
 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




  24
 
 Power of Attorney (set forth on signature page).




  31.1 (a)
 
 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




  31.2 (a)
 
 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




  32.1 (a) (b)
 
 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.




  99.1 (a)
 
 Certification of Chief Executive Officer of PrivateBancorp, Inc. under 31 C.F.R. Section 30.15.




  99.2 (a)
 
 Certification of Chief Financial Officer of PrivateBancorp, Inc. under 31 C.F.R. Section 30.15.




101 (a) (c)
 
 The following financial statements from the PrivateBancorp, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, filed on February 27, 2012,
formatted in Extensive Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) consolidated statements of financial condition, (ii) consolidated statements of income, (iii) consolidated statements of changes in equity, (iv) consolidated statements of cash flows,
and (v) the notes to consolidated financial statements.
  


(a) 
 Filed herewith. 


(b) 
 This exhibit shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to
the liability of that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 


(c)
 As provided in
Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
Exhibits 10.7 through 10.46 are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. 
  158




