
10-K
1
d262950d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549  FORM 10-K  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934  For the year ended December 31, 2011 
Commission File Number 1-11758   


   (Exact name of Registrant
as specified in its charter)   










 
 
 
 

 Delaware (State or
other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
1585 Broadway New York, NY 10036
(Address of principal executive offices,including zip code)
 
36-3145972
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 
(212) 761-4000
(Registrant’s telephone number,including area code)










 Title of each class
  
Name of exchange on which
registered

 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
  


Common Stock, $0.01 par value
  
New York Stock Exchange

 Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series A, $0.01 par value
  
New York Stock Exchange

6 1/4% Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III (and Registrant’s guaranty with respect thereto)
  
New York Stock Exchange

6 1/4% Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV (and Registrant’s guaranty with respect thereto)
  
New York Stock Exchange

5 3/4% Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V (and Registrant’s guaranty with respect thereto)
  
New York Stock Exchange

6.60% Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VI (and Registrant’s guaranty with respect thereto)
  
New York Stock Exchange

6.60% Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII (and Registrant’s guaranty with respect thereto)
  
New York Stock Exchange

6.45% Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (and Registrant’s guaranty with respect thereto)
  
New York Stock Exchange

Capital Protected Notes due September 30, 2012
  
NYSE Arca, Inc.

 MPSSM due March 30, 2012
  
NYSE Arca, Inc.

Market Vectors ETNs due March 31, 2020 (2 issuances); Market Vectors ETNs due April 30, 2020 (2 issuances)
  
NYSE Arca, Inc.

Morgan Stanley Cushing® MLP High Income Index ETNs due March 21, 2031
  
NYSE Arca, Inc.

Morgan Stanley S&P 500 Crude Oil Linked ETNs due July 1, 2031
  
NYSE Arca, Inc.
   Indicate by check mark if Registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES x NO ¨ 
  Indicate by check mark if Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. YES ¨ NO x   
Indicate by check mark whether Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES
x NO ¨    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files). YES x NO
¨    Indicate by
check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ¨   
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   






 Large Accelerated Filer x Non-Accelerated Filer ¨ (Do not check if
a smaller reporting company)
 
 Accelerated Filer ¨ Smaller reporting company ¨
   Indicate by check mark whether Registrant is
a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). YES ¨ NO x 
  As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the common stock of
Registrant held by non-affiliates of Registrant was approximately $44,205,856,161. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for any other purposes.    As of January 31, 2012, there were 1,978,634,958 shares of Registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.
   Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of
Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K. 


Table of Contents


 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  for the year ended December 31, 2011   










Table of Contents
 
  
  
Page
 





Part I
 

  




 Item 1.
 
Business
  
 
1
  


 
 Overview
  
 
1
  


 
 Available Information
  
 
1
  


 
 Business Segments
  
 
2
  


 
 Institutional Securities
  
 
2
  


 
 Global Wealth Management Group
  
 
4
  


 
 Asset Management
  
 
5
  


 
 Competition
  
 
6
  


 
 Supervision and Regulation
  
 
7
  


 
 Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley
  
 
18
  

 Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
  
 
20
  

 Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
30
  

 Item 2.
 
Properties
  
 
31
  

 Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
  
 
32
  

 Item 4.
 
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
40
  





Part II
 

  




 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

  
 
41
  

 Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
  
 
44
  

 Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
46
  


 
 Introduction
  
 
46
  


 
 Executive Summary
  
 
47
  


 
 Business Segments
  
 
56
  


 
 Accounting Developments
  
 
75
  


 
 Other Matters
  
 
76
  


 
 Critical Accounting Policies
  
 
79
  


 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources
  
 
84
  

 Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
100
  

 Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
125
  


 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
125
  


 
 Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
  
 
126
  


 
 Consolidated Statements of Income
  
 
128
  


 
 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
  
 
129
  


 
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
130
  


 
 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity
  
 
131
  
  i 





Table of Contents










  
 
  
  
Page
 


 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
133
  


 
 Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)
  
 
261
  

Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
268
  

Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
268
  

Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
  
 
270
  





 Part III
 

  




Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
271
  

Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
  
 
271
  

Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
272
  

Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
272
  

Item 14.
 
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
272
  





 Part IV
 

  




Item 15.
 
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
273
  




 Signatures
  
 
S-1
  




 Exhibit Index
  
 
E-1
  

  ii 





Table of Contents
Forward-Looking Statements    We have included in or incorporated by reference into this report, and from time to time may make in our public filings, press
releases or other public statements, certain statements, including (without limitation) those under “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” in Part II, Item 7 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A, that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts and
represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control.   
The nature of our business makes predicting the future trends of our revenues, expenses and net income difficult. The risks and uncertainties involved in
our businesses could affect the matters referred to in such statements, and it is possible that our actual results may differ from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include (without limitation):   


 
•
 
 the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events;   


 
•
 
 the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage
(commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets;   


 
•
 
 the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank
Act”)), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), and legal actions in the U.S. and worldwide;   


 
•
 
 the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, interest rates, currency values and other market indices;
  


 
•
 
 the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt;
  


 
•
 
 investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; 
 


 
•
 
 the performance of our acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements; 
 


 
•
 
 our reputation;   


 
•
 
 inflation, natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism; 
 


 
•
 
 the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations;
  


 
•
 
 technological changes; and   


 
•
 
 other risks and uncertainties detailed under “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I,
Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere throughout this report.   
Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We
undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise except
as required by applicable law. You should, however, consult further disclosures we may make in future filings of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto or in future
press releases or other public statements. 
  iii
 




Table of Contents
Part I 
 


Item 1.
Business.    Overview.    Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including
corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. The Company is a financial holding
company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). The Company conducts its business from its headquarters in
and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At December 31, 2011, the Company had 61,899 employees worldwide. Unless
the context otherwise requires, the terms the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
  Financial information concerning the Company, its business segments and
geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2011 (“2011”), December 31, 2010 (“2010”) and December 31, 2009 (“2009”) is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes
thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.    Available Information.    The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document the
Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains
annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The Company’s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the
SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.    The Company’s
internet site is www.morganstanley.com. You can access the Company’s Investor Relations webpage at www.morganstanley.com/about/ir. The Company makes available free of charge, on or through its Investor Relations webpage, its proxy
statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”),
as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC’s internet site, statements of
beneficial ownership of the Company’s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 
 
You can access information about the Company’s corporate governance at
www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance. The Company’s Corporate Governance webpage includes the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; Amended and Restated Bylaws; charters for its Audit Committee,
Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, Operations and Technology Committee, and Risk Committee; Corporate Governance Policies; Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;
Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders; Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions; Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan; Code of Ethics and Business Conduct; Code of Conduct; and Integrity Hotline information.

 









 
1
 





Table of Contents
Morgan Stanley’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees,
including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Controller. The Company will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by
the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036
(212-761-4000). The information on the Company’s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.   
Business Segments.   
The Company is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional
Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management.   
Institutional Securities.   
The Company provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily
through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (“MS&Co.”), Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited, and certain joint venture entities that include Morgan
Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. (“MSMS”) and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”). The Company, primarily through these entities, also conducts sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and
agent, and provides related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.    Investment Banking and Corporate Lending Activities.    Capital Raising.    The Company manages and participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. The Company is a
leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”). The Company is also a leading underwriter of fixed income securities,
including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities. 
  Financial Advisory Services.    The Company
provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, corporate restructurings, recapitalizations, spin-offs, exchange offers and
leveraged buyouts and takeover defenses as well as shareholder relations. The Company also provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and financial
planning. In addition, the Company furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate. 
  Corporate Lending.    The Company provides
loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing, to selected corporate clients through its subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A (“MSBNA”). These loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated
and/or secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, hedged or traded by the Company*. The borrowers may be rated investment grade or
non-investment grade.    Sales and Trading Activities.
   The Company conducts sales, trading, financing and
market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter (“OTC”) markets around the world. The Company’s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities comprise Equity Trading; Fixed Income and
Commodities; Clients and Services; Research; and Investments. 
 











 
2
 



Table of Contents
Equity Trading.    The Company acts as principal (including as a
market-maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.    The Company’s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making activities cover equity-related products globally,
including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. The Company also issues and makes a principal market in equity-linked products to
institutional and individual investors.    Fixed Income and
Commodities.    The Company trades, invests and makes markets in fixed income securities and related products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt,
bank loans, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt obligations, credit, currency, interest rate and other fixed income-linked notes, securities issued by structured investment
vehicles, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate-loan products, municipal securities, preferred stock and commercial paper, money-market and other short-term securities. The Company is a primary dealer of U.S. federal
government securities and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. The Company is also a primary dealer or market-maker of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market
countries.    The Company trades, invests and makes markets globally
in listed futures and OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities,
emerging market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products. 
  The Company trades, invests and makes markets in major foreign currencies,
such as the British pound, Canadian dollar, euro, Japanese yen and Swiss franc, as well as in emerging markets currencies. The Company trades these currencies on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets. 
  Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, the Company
acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. The Company also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan products and other
securitizable asset classes. In addition, the Company engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers.   
The Company advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and tax planning. The Company structures
debt securities, derivatives and other instruments with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to provide
liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.    The Company invests and
makes markets in the spot, forward, physical derivatives and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight,
liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. The Company is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption,
reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations and monetization. The Company is an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns electricity-generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.
   The Company owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a
group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and owns a minority interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S.
marine logistics services. 
 









 
3
 





Table of Contents
Clients and Services.    The Company provides financing services,
including prime brokerage, which offers, among other services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. In addition, the Company’s institutional
distribution and sales activities are overseen and coordinated through Clients and Services.    Research.    The Company’s research department (“Research”) coordinates globally across all of the Company’s businesses and consists of economists,
strategists and industry analysts who engage in equity and fixed income research activities and produce reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and
industry developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside the U.S.; provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments that
affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends; and provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded and data are
disseminated to investors through third-party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Link, and the Company’s global representatives.   
Investments.    The Company from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or other investing
activities. Such investments are typically strategic investments undertaken by the Company to facilitate core business activities. From time to time, the Company may also make investments and capital commitments to public and private companies,
funds and other entities.    The Company sponsors and manages
investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, infrastructure, mezzanine lending and real estate-related and other alternative investments. The Company may also invest in and provide capital to such
investment vehicles. See also “Asset Management” herein.   
Operations and Information Technology.   
The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports Institutional Securities
sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This is done for transactions in listed and OTC transactions
in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world. This activity is undertaken through the Company’s own facilities,
through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.   
Global Wealth Management Group.   
The Company’s Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the Company’s 51% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC
(“MSSB”), provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of more than 17,500 global representatives in approximately 765 locations at year-end. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s Global Wealth
Management Group had $1,649 billion in client assets.    Clients.
   Global Wealth Management Group professionals serve
individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Global representatives are located in branches across the U.S. and provide solutions designed
to accommodate individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside the U.S., Global Wealth Management Group offers financial services to clients in
Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Australia, Canada and Latin America. 
  4 





Table of Contents
Products and Services. 
  The Company’s Global Wealth Management Group provides clients with a
comprehensive array of financial solutions, including products and services from the Company, Citigroup Inc. (“Citi”) and third-party providers, such as insurance companies and mutual fund families. Global Wealth Management Group provides
brokerage and investment advisory services covering various types of investments, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit
investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset allocation programs. Global Wealth Management Group also engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or
investments in such securities. In addition, Global Wealth Management Group offers education savings programs, financial and wealth planning services, and annuity and other insurance products.    In addition, Global Wealth Management Group offers its clients access to several cash management services through various banks
and other third parties, including deposits, debit cards, electronic bill payments and check writing, as well as lending products through affiliates such as Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (“MS Private Bank”) and MSBNA,
including securities based lending, mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. Global Wealth Management Group also provides trust and fiduciary services, offers access to cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small- and
medium-sized businesses in the U.S., and provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including individual retirement accounts and 401(k) plans and U.S. and global stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses. 
  Global Wealth Management Group provides clients a variety of ways to
establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing. 
  Operations and Information Technology. 
  As a result of the MSSB joint venture, the operations and technology
supporting the Global Wealth Management Group is provided by a combination of the Company and MSSB’s Operations and Information Technology departments and by Citi. Pursuant to contractual agreements, the Company, MSSB and Citi perform various
broker-dealer related functions, such as execution and clearing of brokerage transactions, margin lending and custody of client assets. For the Company and MSSB, these activities are undertaken through their own facilities, through memberships in
various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties. Citi also provides certain other services and systems to support the Global Wealth Management Group through transition services agreements with
MSSB.    Asset Management.
   The Company’s Asset Management business segment is one
of the largest global investment management organizations of any full-service financial services firm and offers clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. Portfolio managers located
in the U.S., Europe and Asia manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity and fixed income strategies, alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed and emerging markets across geographies and market cap
ranges.    The Company offers a range of alternative investment,
real estate investing and merchant banking products for institutional investors and high net worth individuals. The Company’s alternative investments platform includes funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and portable alpha
strategies. The Company’s alternative investments platform also includes minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners, Avenue Capital Group and Traxis Partners LP. The Company’s real estate and merchant banking businesses include its real estate
investing business, private equity funds, corporate mezzanine debt investing group and infrastructure investing group. The 
  5 





Table of Contents

Company typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment, real estate and merchant banking funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the
capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.    Institutional Investors.    The Company provides investment management strategies and products to institutional investors worldwide, including corporations, pension plans, endowments, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, insurance
companies and banks through a broad range of pooled vehicles and separate accounts. Additionally, the Company provides sub-advisory services to various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A Global Sales and Client Service team is
engaged in business development and relationship management for consultants to help serve institutional clients.    Intermediary Clients and Individual Investors.    The Company offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies,
financial planners and other intermediaries. Closed-end funds managed by the Company are available to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. The Company also distributes mutual funds through numerous retirement plan
platforms. Internationally, the Company distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors and distributes alternative investment products through affiliated broker-dealers and banks.
   Operations and Information Technology. 
  The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide
or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its asset management business. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services on behalf
of institutional, intermediary and high net worth clients. These activities are undertaken through the Company’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third
parties.    Competition. 
  All aspects of the Company’s businesses are highly competitive, and the
Company expects them to remain so. The Company competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. The Company’s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality
and consistency of its long-term investment performance. The Company’s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees while managing
compensation and other costs. The Company competes with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through
the internet. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy.
Such changes could result in the Company’s remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. See also “Supervision and
Regulation” and “Risk Factors” herein.   
Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group. 
  The Company’s competitive position for its Institutional Securities and
Global Wealth Management Group business segments depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. The Company competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with
others on a regional or product basis. 
  6 





Table of Contents
The Company’s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally dependent on the
Company’s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients may request
that the Company provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities, and such requests are expected to increase in the future. 
  It is possible that competition may become even more intense as the Company
continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products
and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things,
technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for the Company to remain competitive. 
  The Company has experienced intense price competition in some of its
businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to
automated, electronic markets will likely continue. It is possible that the Company will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.
   Asset Management. 
  Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors,
including the Company’s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion
efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. The Company’s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and
hedge funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers.    Supervision and Regulation    As a major financial services firm, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the
major markets where it operates. Moreover, in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and around the world, are in the process of adopting and implementing a wide range of reforms that will result in major
changes to the way the Company is regulated and conducts its business. It will take time for the comprehensive effects of these reforms to emerge and be understood. 
  Regulatory Outlook. 
  On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law.
While certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, other portions will be effective only following extended transition periods. Moreover, implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will be accomplished through numerous rulemakings by
multiple governmental agencies, only a portion of which have been completed. It remains difficult to assess fully the impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the Company and on the financial services industry generally. In addition, various
international developments, such as the adoption of risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”), known as “Basel III,” will impact the Company in the
coming years.    It is likely that 2012 and subsequent years will
see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates, although it remains difficult to predict which further reform initiatives will become law, how such
reforms will be implemented or the exact impact they will have on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. 
  7 





Table of Contents
Financial Holding Company. 
  The Company has operated as a bank holding company and financial holding
company under the BHC Act since September 2008.   
Consolidated Supervision.   
As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. As a
result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve also gained heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of the Company’s subsidiaries. In particular, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the
Company is subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of its businesses and plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to the Volcker Rule,
to a systemic risk regime which will impose especially high capital and liquidity requirements, and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. In addition, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has exclusive rulemaking and primary
enforcement and examination authority over the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer financial laws, to the extent applicable.   
Scope of Permitted Activities.    The BHC Act provides a two-year period from September 21, 2008, the date that the
Company became a bank holding company, for the Company to conform or dispose of certain nonconforming activities as defined by the BHC Act. Three one-year extensions may be granted by the Federal Reserve upon approval of the Company’s
application for each extension. The Company has received the second of these extensions with respect to certain activities relating to its real estate and other funds businesses. It has also disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed
certain activities to the requirements of the BHC Act. Although conformance activities continue with respect to these businesses, it is possible that the Company will be required, in 2012, to seek Federal Reserve approval for the third additional
year permitted by the BHC Act. The Federal Reserve may grant an extension if it finds that the extension will not be detrimental to the public interest. Based on the nonconforming real estate and other investments and businesses which are required
to be sold, the Company believes there would be no material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or operations.   
In addition, the Company is engaged in discussions with the Federal Reserve regarding its commodities activities, as the BHC Act also grandfathers
“activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,” provided that the Company was engaged in “any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States” and
provided that certain other conditions that are within the Company’s reasonable control are satisfied. If the Federal Reserve were to determine that any of the Company’s commodities activities did not qualify for the BHC Act grandfather
exemption, then the Company would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the BHC Act by the end of any extensions of the grace period. At this time the Company does not believe, based on its interpretation
of applicable law, that any such required divestment would have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or operations.   
Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule.    A section of the BHC Act added by the Dodd-Frank Act (the
“Volcker Rule”) will, over time, prohibit “banking entities,” including the Company and its affiliates, from engaging in “proprietary trading,” as defined by the regulators. The Volcker Rule will also require
banking entities to either restructure or unwind certain investments and relationships with “hedge funds” and “private equity funds,” as such terms are defined in the Volcker Rule and by the regulators. Comments on proposed
regulations to implement the substantive Volcker Rule provisions were due by February 13, 2012. It is unclear whether final rules will be in place by July 21, 2012 when the Volcker Rule is scheduled to become effective. 
  Banking entities will have a two-year transition period to come into full
compliance with the Volcker Rule, subject to the possibility of extensions. While full compliance with the Volcker Rule will likely only be required 
  8 





Table of Contents

by July 2014, subject to extensions, the Company’s business and operations are expected to be impacted earlier, as operating models, investments and legal structures must be reviewed and
gradually adjusted to the new legal environment. The Company continues to review its private equity fund, hedge fund and proprietary trading operations. With respect to the “proprietary trading” prohibition of the Volcker Rule, the Company
has previously announced plans to dispose of its in-house proprietary quantitative trading unit, Process-Driven Trading (“PDT”), by the end of 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2011, PDT did not have a material impact on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The Company has also previously exited other standalone proprietary trading businesses (defined as those businesses dedicated solely to investing the Company’s capital),
and the Company is continuing to liquidate legacy positions related to those businesses.    There remains considerable uncertainty about the interpretation of the proposed rules, and we are unable to predict what the final version of the rules will be or the impact they may have on our
businesses. We are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the Volcker Rule, and when the regulations are final, we will be in a position to complete a review of our relevant activities and make plans to implement compliance with the
Volcker Rule.    Capital and Liquidity
Standards.    The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company and evaluates its compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”)
establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company’s national bank subsidiaries. Under current capital requirements, for the Company to remain a financial holding company, its bank subsidiaries must qualify as “well
capitalized” by maintaining a total capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 10% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%. The capital standards applicable to the Company’s bank subsidiaries also apply directly to
the Company, as a holding company, and require it to remain “well capitalized” to maintain its status as a financial holding company. The Federal Reserve may require the Company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain
risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. In addition, under the Federal Reserve’s
leverage rules, bank holding companies that have implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital measure for market risk, such as the Company, are subject to a Tier 1 minimum leverage ratio of 3%. 
  The Company calculates its capital ratios and risk-weighted assets in
accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Federal Reserve. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital
Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations incorporating the Basel II Accord, which requires internationally active banking organizations, as well as
certain of their U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. In July 2010, the Company began reporting its capital adequacy standards on a parallel basis to its regulators under Basel I and Basel II as part
of a phased implementation of Basel II.    In June 2011, the U.S.
banking regulators published final regulations implementing a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring that certain institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve, including the Company, be subject to capital requirements that are not less than the
generally applicable risk-based capital requirements. As a result, the generally applicable capital standards, which are based on Basel I standards, but may themselves change over time, will serve as a permanent floor to minimum capital
requirements calculated under the Basel II standard the Company is currently required to implement, as well as future capital standards.  
In addition, when implemented, Basel III will impose a new minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 equity ratio of 6%, and the
minimum total capital ratio will remain at 8.0% (plus a 2.5% capital conservation buffer consisting of common equity in addition to these ratios). The new capital conservation buffer will impose a common equity requirement above the new minimum that
can be depleted under stress. Basel III also introduces new liquidity measures designed to monitor banking institutions for their ability to meet short-term 
  9 





Table of Contents

cash flow needs and to address longer-term structural liquidity mismatches. The Federal Reserve is expected to propose rules implementing Basel III in the U.S. in 2012. However, many provisions,
once adopted, will be subject to extended phase-in periods.    The
Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to implement a provision under Basel III that would require global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”), such as the Company, to hold an additional capital buffer. Although the Federal
Reserve has not yet issued a proposed rule to implement this G-SIB surcharge, in November 2011 the Financial Stability Board endorsed a Basel Committee proposal providing that the capital surcharge would range from 1% to 2.5% of risk-weighted
assets, and that the largest systemically important financial institutions could potentially be subject to a 3.5% capital surcharge.   
See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital
Resources—Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7 herein.    Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends.    U.S. banking regulators have recently imposed new capital planning and stress test requirements on large bank holding
companies, including the Company. As of December 2011, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets, such as the Company, must submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate
stress tests designed by the bank holding company and the Federal Reserve. The scenario provided by the Federal Reserve in 2011 includes a sizable shortfall in U.S. economic activity and employment, accompanied by a sizeable decline in global
economic activity, sharp market price movements in European sovereign and financial sectors, among other adverse circumstances. The capital plans must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon,
including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution (i.e., payments of dividends or stock repurchases), and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could impact the bank holding company’s
consolidated capital. The capital plans must include a discussion of how the bank holding company will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5%, and serve as a source of strength to its
subsidiary depository institutions.    Beginning in 2012, bank
holding companies subject to the capital planning requirements, including the Company, must submit their capital plans in January each year, and the Federal Reserve must object to them, in whole or in part, or provide written notice of non-objection
by March 31 each year. If the Federal Reserve objects to the capital plan, or if certain material events occur after approval of a plan, the bank holding company must submit a revised capital plan within 30 days. In addition, even with an
approved capital plan, the bank holding company must seek the approval of the Federal Reserve before taking a capital action if, among other reasons, the bank holding company would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after taking the
proposed capital action. In addition to capital planning requirements, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the Company,
MSBNA and other depository institution subsidiaries of the Company, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.
All of these policies and other requirements could influence the Company’s ability to pay dividends, or require it to provide capital assistance to MSBNA or MS Private Bank under circumstances under which the Company would not otherwise decide
to do so.    See also “—Capital and Liquidity
Standards” above.    Systemic Risk
Regime.    The Dodd-Frank Act established a new regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions deemed to pose systemic risks. Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the
Company, became automatically subject to the systemic risk regime in July 2010. A new oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”), can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements to
the Federal Reserve for systemically important financial institutions, and must approve any finding by the Federal Reserve that a financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating actions. The Council is
also empowered to designate systemically 
  10 





Table of Contents

important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation, and, assisted by the new Office of Financial Research
within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”) (established by the Dodd-Frank Act), can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including the Company.    In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement certain requirements of the systemic risk regime.
Among other provisions, the proposed rules would require systemically important financial institutions, such as the Company, to maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event, to conduct
regular liquidity stress tests, and to implement various liquidity risk management requirements. More generally, the proposed rules would require institutions to comply with a range of corporate governance requirements, such as establishment of a
risk committee of the board of directors and appointment of a chief risk officer, both of which the Company already has.   
The proposed rules would also limit the aggregate exposure of each of the largest systemically important financial institutions, including the Company, to
each other such institution to 10% of the aggregate capital and surplus of each institution, and limit the aggregate exposure of such institutions to any other bank holding company with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets to 25% of each
institution’s aggregate capital and surplus. In addition, the proposed rules would create a new early remediation regime to address financial distress or material management weaknesses determined with reference to four levels of early
remediation, including heightened supervisory review, initial remediation, recovery, and resolution assessment, with specific limitations and requirements tied to each level. The proposed rules would also subject systemically important financial
institutions to regular stress tests, including institution-administered tests and separate tests conducted by the Federal Reserve, and require publication of public summaries of institutions’ self-administered stress tests. 
  The systemic risk regime also provides that, for institutions posing a grave
threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon Council vote, must limit that institution’s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities
or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets. Upon a grave threat determination by the Council, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that require financial institutions subject to the systemic risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio
of no more than 15-to-1 if the Council considers it necessary to mitigate the risk. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on
short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures.    See also
“—Capital and Liquidity Standards” above and “—Orderly Liquidation Authority” below.    Orderly Liquidation Authority.    Under the Dodd-Frank Act, financial companies, including bank holding companies such as Morgan Stanley and certain covered subsidiaries,
can be subjected to a new orderly liquidation authority. The U.S. Treasury must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations. Absent such U.S. Treasury determinations, the Company as a bank holding company
would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.    The orderly
liquidation authority went into effect in July 2010, and rulemaking to render it fully operative is proceeding in stages, with some implementing regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed. If the Company were subjected to the
orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable rights and powers that it must exercise with the goal of liquidating and winding up the Company, including (i) the FDIC’s right to
assign assets and liabilities and transfer some to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (ii) the ability of the FDIC to differentiate among creditors, including by treating
junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (iii) the broad powers given the FDIC to administer the claims process to
determine which creditor receives what, and in which order, from assets not transferred to a third party or bridge financial institution. 
  11 





Table of Contents
U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. 
  U.S. Banking Institutions.    MSBNA,
primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers consumer lending and commercial lending services in addition to deposit products. Certain foreign exchange activities are also conducted in MSBNA. As an FDIC-insured national bank, MSBNA is subject to
supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.    MS Private
Bank conducts certain mortgage lending activities primarily for customers of its affiliate retail broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC (“MSSB LLC”). MS Private Bank also offers certain deposit products, as well as personal trust
and prime brokerage custody services. MS Private Bank is an FDIC-insured national bank whose activities are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. 
  Prompt Corrective Action.    The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the
relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current regulations generally apply only to insured banks
and thrifts such as MSBNA or MS Private Bank and not to their parent holding companies, such as Morgan Stanley. The Federal Reserve is, however, subject to limitations, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level. In addition,
as described above, under the systemic risk regime, the Company will become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress.   
Transactions with Affiliates.    The Company’s U.S. subsidiary banks are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the
Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on any extensions of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions with, any affiliates. These restrictions include limits on the total amount of credit exposure that they may have
to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the affiliate transaction limits will be substantially broadened.
Implementing rulemaking is called for by July 2012. At that time, the Company’s U.S. banking subsidiaries will also become subject to more onerous lending limits. Both reforms will place limits on the Company’s U.S. banking
subsidiaries’ ability to engage in derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions with other affiliates of the Company.   
FDIC Regulation.    An FDIC–insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to
be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. As FDIC-insured depository institutions, MSBNA and MS Private Bank are exposed to each other’s
losses. In addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. In 2010, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan to replenish the reserve fund over a multi-year period. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, some of the restoration must
be paid for exclusively by large depository institutions, including MSBNA, and assessments are calculated using a new methodology that generally favors banks that are mostly funded by deposits. 
  Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.
   Broker-Dealer
Regulation.    The Company’s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S.
Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. In addition, MS&Co. and MSSB
LLC are registered investment advisers with the SEC. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports,
use of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators
in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the 
  12 





Table of Contents

issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other
similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.    The Dodd-Frank Act includes various provisions that affect the regulation of broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, the SEC is authorized to adopt a fiduciary duty
applicable to broker-dealers when providing investment advice to retail customers. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new category of regulation for “municipal advisors,” which are subject to a fiduciary duty with respect to certain
activities. The U.S. Department of Labor is considering revisions to regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that could subject broker-dealers to a fiduciary duty and prohibit specified transactions for a wider range of
customer interactions. These developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential liabilities. If the SEC exercises authority provided to it under the Dodd-Frank Act to prohibit
or limit the use of mandatory arbitration pre-dispute agreements between a broker-dealer and its customers, it may materially increase the Company’s litigation costs. 
  Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve’s
restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed
under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, the Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules. 
  As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of the Company are
subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Many non-U.S. regulatory authorities and exchanges also have rules relating to capital
and, in some cases, liquidity requirements that apply to the Company’s non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of
net and/or more liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also “Consolidated Supervision” and “Capital Standards” above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on
the transfer of member organizations’ assets.    Compliance
with regulatory capital requirements may limit the Company’s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict the Company’s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may
limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt, or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a
significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require the Company to make
substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules.   
MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”), which provides protection for customers of
broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. SIPC protects customers’ eligible securities held by a member broker-dealer up to $500,000 per customer for all accounts in the same capacity subject to a
limitation of $250,000 for claims for uninvested cash balances. To supplement this SIPC coverage, each of MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have purchased additional protection for the benefit of their customers in the form of an annual policy issued by
certain underwriters and various insurance companies that provides protection for each eligible customer above SIPC limits subject to an aggregate firmwide cap of $1 billion with no per client sublimit for securities and a $1.9 million per client
limit for the cash portion of any remaining shortfall. As noted under “Systemic Risk Regime,” the Dodd-Frank Act contains special provisions for the orderly liquidation of covered financial institutions (which could potentially include
MS&Co. and/or MSSB LLC). While these provisions are generally intended to provide customers of covered broker-dealers with protections at least as beneficial as they would enjoy in a broker-dealer liquidation proceeding under the Securities
Investor Protection Act, the details and implementation of such protections are subject to further rulemaking. 
  13 





Table of Contents
Over the past few years, the SEC has undertaken a review of a wide range of equity market structure issues.
As a part of this review, the SEC has adopted new regulations and proposed various rules regarding market transparency. A new short sale uptick rule that limits the ability to sell short securities that have experienced specified price declines is
now in effect. The SEC also adopted rules requiring broker-dealers to maintain risk management controls and supervisory procedures with respect to providing access to securities markets, which will become fully effective in 2012. In addition, in an
effort to prevent volatile trading, self-regulatory organizations have adopted trading pauses, more commonly referred to as circuit breakers, with respect to certain securities. It is possible that the SEC or self-regulatory organizations could
propose or adopt additional market structure rules in the future.   
The provisions, new rules and proposals discussed above could result in increased costs and could otherwise adversely affect trading volumes and other
conditions in the markets in which we operate.    Regulation
of Registered Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities.    As registered futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are subject to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated
by, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and various commodity futures exchanges. The Company’s futures and options-on-futures businesses also are regulated by the National Futures Association (“NFA”),
a registered futures association, of which MS&Co. and MSSB LLC and certain of their affiliates are members. These regulatory requirements differ for clearing and non-clearing firms, and they address obligations related to, among other things,
the registration of the futures commission merchant and certain of its associated persons, membership with the NFA, the segregation of customer funds and the holding apart of a secured amount, the use of customer funds, the receipt of an
acknowledgment of certain written risk disclosure statements, the receipt of trading authorizations, the furnishing of daily confirmations and monthly statements, recordkeeping and reporting obligations, the supervision of accounts and antifraud
prohibitions. Among other things, the NFA has rules covering a wide variety of areas such as advertising, telephone solicitations, risk disclosure, discretionary trading, disclosure of fees, minimum capital requirements, reporting and proficiency
testing. MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have affiliates that are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance. Under
CFTC and NFA rules, commodity trading advisors who manage accounts and are registered with the NFA must distribute disclosure documents and maintain specified records relating to their activities, and clients and commodity pool operators have
certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they operate. For each pool, a registered commodity pool operator must prepare and distribute a disclosure document; distribute periodic account statements; prepare and distribute audited annual
financial reports; and keep specified records concerning the participants, transactions and operations of each pool, as well as records regarding transactions of the commodity pool operator and its principals. Violations of the rules of the CFTC,
the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. 
  The Company’s commodities activities are subject to extensive and
evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and
by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. Terminal facilities and other assets relating
to the Company’s commodities activities also are subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous
substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal. See also “—Scope of Permitted Activities” above. 
  On October 18, 2011, the CFTC adopted a position limits rule that, when
effective, would impose position limits on a trader’s positions in futures, options, and swaps on 28 energy, metals, and agricultural commodities. In 
  14 





Table of Contents

December 2011, industry organizations filed a lawsuit against the CFTC challenging the validity of the rule. This rule, if it withstands legal challenge and becomes effective, may affect trading
strategies and affect the profitability of various businesses and transactions.    Derivatives Regulation.    Through the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company will face a comprehensive U.S. regulatory regime for its activities in certain OTC derivatives. The
regulation of “swaps” and “security-based swaps” (collectively, “Swaps”) in the U.S. will be effected and implemented through CFTC, SEC and other agency regulations, which are currently being adopted. 
  The Dodd-Frank Act requires central clearing of certain types of Swaps,
public and regulatory reporting, and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities. These requirements are subject to some exceptions and will be phased in over time. However, market participants, including the Company’s
entities engaging in Swaps, will have to centrally clear, report and trade on an exchange or execution facility certain Swap transactions that are currently uncleared, not reported publicly and executed bilaterally. 
  The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the registration of “swap dealers”
and “major swap participants” with the CFTC and “security-based swap dealers” and “major security-based swap participants” with the SEC (collectively, “Swaps Entities”). Certain subsidiaries of the Company
will be required to register as a swap dealer and security-based swap dealer and it is possible some subsidiaries may register as a major swap participant and major security-based swap participant. Swaps Entities will be subject to a comprehensive
regulatory regime with new obligations for the Swaps activities for which they are registered, including new capital requirements, a new margin regime for uncleared Swaps and a new segregation regime for collateral of counterparties to uncleared
Swaps. Swaps Entities also will be subject to additional duties, including internal and external business conduct and documentation standards with respect to their Swaps counterparties.    The specific parameters of these Swaps Entities requirements are being developed through CFTC, SEC and bank regulator
rulemakings. The impact of the regulation on Morgan Stanley entities required to register remains unclear. It is likely, however, that the Company will face increased costs due to the registration and regulatory requirements listed above. Complying
with the proposed regulation of Swaps Entities could require the Company to restructure its Swaps businesses, require extensive systems changes, require personnel changes, and raise additional potential liabilities and regulatory oversight.
Compliance with Swap-related regulatory capital requirements may require the Company to devote more capital to its Swaps business. The extraterritorial impact of the rules also remains unclear. 
  Morgan Stanley Swap Entities will also be subject to new rules under the
Dodd-Frank Act regarding segregation of customer collateral for cleared transactions, position limits, large trader reporting regimes, compensation requirements and anti-fraud and anti-manipulation requirements related to activities in Swaps.
   The European Union (“E.U.”) is in the process of
amending its OTC derivatives regulations. In October 2011, the E.U. published a proposal to amend the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and recently reached an accord to require central clearing of certain OTC derivatives. The Company
currently expects that, when the E.U. OTC derivatives regime is fully implemented, it will be similar to derivatives regulation under the Dodd-Frank Act, including with respect to the scope of derivatives covered, and mandatory clearing, reporting,
and trading requirements. It is unclear at present how the E.U. and U.S. derivatives regulation will interact.    Non-U.S. Regulation.    The Company’s institutional securities businesses also are regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities
exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the Company maintains an office. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under
the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or
conduct their business activity. For instance, the U.K. Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) and several 
  15 





Table of Contents

U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe, regulate the Company’s activities in the U.K.; the Bundesanstalt für
Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) and the Deutsche Bôrse AG regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; Eidgenôssische Finanzmarktaufsicht (the Financial Market Supervisory
Authority) regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka
Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate
its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.   
Asset Management.   
Many of the subsidiaries engaged in the Company’s asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Many aspects of the
Company’s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative
powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension
of individual employees, limitations on the Company engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. In order to
facilitate its asset management business, the Company owns a registered U.S. broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc., which acts as distributor to the Morgan Stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds
managed by the Company’s asset management business segment. See also “—Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group—Broker-Dealer Regulation” above.    As a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company’s asset management activities will be subject to certain
additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds), restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other
relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds under the Volcker Rule (subject to certain limited exceptions) and certain rules and regulations regarding trading activities, including trading in derivatives markets. Many of these new
requirements may increase the expenses associated with the Company’s asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns the Company is able to generate for its asset management clients. Many important elements of the Dodd-Frank
Act will not be known until rulemaking is finalized and certain final regulations are adopted. See also “—Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule” and “—Derivatives Regulation” above. 
  The Company’s Asset Management business is also regulated outside the
U.S. For example, the FSA regulates the Company’s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates the Company’s business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange Board of India regulates the Company’s business in India; and
the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates the Company’s business in Singapore.    Anti-Money Laundering and Economic Sanctions.    The Company’s Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001,
imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding company subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, and mutual
funds to implement AML programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations
similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement AML programs. The Company has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to 
  16 





Table of Contents

comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. The Company has also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic
sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to
the U.S. foreign policy, national security, or economy; by other governments; or by global or regional multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations Security Council. 
  Anti-Corruption. 
  The Company is subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”), which prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-U.S. government official in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair
business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. The Company is also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, which became effective on July 1, 2011. The
Company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules, and regulations.   
Protection of Client Information.   
Many aspects of the Company’s business are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including
those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the E.U. Data Protection Directive and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law,
the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. The Company has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions. 
  Research.    Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been
implemented in many jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which the Company is a party) have necessitated the development or
enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.   
Compensation Practices and Other Regulation.   
The Company’s compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve and other federal regulators
issued final guidance applicable to all banking organizations, including those supervised by the Federal Reserve. This guidance was promulgated in accordance with compensation principles and standards for banks and other financial companies, which
were designed to encourage the sound compensation practices established by the Financial Stability Board at the direction of the leaders of the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. The guidance was designed to help ensure
that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations’ safety and soundness. The scope and content of the Federal Reserve’s policies on executive compensation
are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its horizontal review process, and the Company expects that these policies will evolve over a number of years. In this regard, in October 2011, the Federal Reserve published its first
report detailing findings from its horizontal review process. In the report, the Federal Reserve announced its intention to implement the compensation disclosure requirements adopted in July 2011 by the Basel Committee. 
  The Company is subject to the compensation-related provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act, which may impact its compensation practices. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, federal regulators, including the Federal Reserve, must prescribe regulations to require covered financial institutions, including the
Company, to report the structures of all of their incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based 
  17 





Table of Contents

payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing employees, directors or principal shareholders with compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial
loss to the covered financial institution. In April 2011, seven federal agencies, including the Federal Reserve, jointly proposed an interagency rule implementing this requirement. The proposed rule is expected to be finalized in 2012. Further,
pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the SEC must direct listing exchanges to require companies to implement policies relating to disclosure of incentive-based compensation that is based on publicly reported financial information and the clawback of such
compensation from current or former executive officers following certain accounting restatements.    In addition to the guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and referenced above, the Company’s compensation practices may also be impacted by other regulations promulgated in accordance with the
Financial Stability Board compensation principles and standards. These standards are to be implemented by local regulators. For instance, in December 2010, the FSA published a policy statement outlining amendments to the Remuneration Code, which
governs remuneration of employees at certain banks, to address compensation-related rules under the E.U. Capital Requirements Directive. In October 2011, the FSA finalized and published additional guidance with respect to the Remuneration Code.
   For a discussion of certain risks relating to the Company’s
regulatory environment, see “Risk Factors” herein.   
 Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley. 
  The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of
February 27, 2012 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.   
Gregory J. Fleming (49).    Executive Vice President and President of Asset Management (since February 2010) and President of
Global Wealth Management Group of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011). President of Research of Morgan Stanley (February 2010 to January 2011). Senior Research Scholar at Yale Law School and Distinguished Visiting Fellow of the Center for the Study
of Corporate Law at Yale Law School (January 2009 to December 2009). President of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”) (February 2008 to January 2009). Co-President of Merrill Lynch (May 2007 to February 2008). Executive
Vice President and Co-President of the Global Markets and Investment Banking Group of Merrill Lynch (August 2003 to May 2007).   
James P. Gorman (53).    Chairman of the Board of Directors (since January 2012) and Chief Executive Officer and Director of
Morgan Stanley (since January 2010) and Chairman of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (since June 2009). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer
of the Global Wealth Management Group (February 2006 to April 2008).    Eric F. Grossman (45).    Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). Global Head of Legal (September 2010 to January 2012). Global
Head of Litigation (January 2006 to September 2010) and General Counsel of the Americas (May 2009 to September 2010). General Counsel of Global Wealth Management Group (November 2008 to June 2009) and General Counsel of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
(June 2009 to September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP (June 2001 to December 2005).   
Keishi Hotsuki (49).    Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2011). Interim Chief Risk Officer (January 2011 to May
2011) and Head of the Market Risk Department (since March 2008). Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (since May 2010). Global Head of Market Risk Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007). 
  Colm Kelleher (54).    Executive Vice President
and Co-President of Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head
of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006). 
  18 





Table of Contents
Ruth Porat (54).    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Vice Chairman of Investment Banking (September 2003 to December 2009). Global Head of Financial Institutions Group (September 2006 to December 2009) and Chairman of the Financial Sponsors Group (July 2004 to
September 2006) within the Investment Banking Division.    James
A. Rosenthal (58).    Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011). Head of Corporate Strategy (January 2010 to May 2011). Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
(January 2010 to August 2011). Head of Firmwide Technology and Operations (March 2008 to January 2010). Chief Financial Officer of Tishman Speyer (May 2006 to March 2008). 
  Paul J. Taubman (51).    Executive Vice President
and Co-President of Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Global Head of Investment Banking (January 2008 to December 2009). Global Co-Head of Investment Banking (July 2007 to January 2008) and Global Head of Mergers and
Acquisitions (May 2005 to July 2007). 
  19 





Table of Contents


Item 1A.    Risk
Factors.    Liquidity and Funding Risk.    Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. Liquidity and funding
risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. For more information on how we monitor and manage
liquidity and funding risk, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 herein. 
  Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external
sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.    Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the
secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, could impair
our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as if we were to incur large trading losses,
are downgraded by the rating agencies, suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. If we are unable to
raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may
have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.   
Global markets and economic conditions have been negatively impacted by the ability of certain E.U. member states to service their sovereign debt
obligations. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of the E.U. governments’ financial support programs and the possibility that other E.U. member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. In
particular, it has and could in the future disrupt equity markets and result in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of E.U. members. These factors, or market perceptions concerning such matters, could have an adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and liquidity. In particular, in connection with certain of our Institutional Securities business segment activities, we have exposure to European peripheral countries, which are defined as exposures in Greece, Ireland, Italy,
Portugal and Spain. At January 3, 2012, exposure before hedges to European peripheral countries was approximately $5,044 million and net exposure after hedges was approximately $3,056 million. Exposure includes obligations from sovereign
governments, corporations, and financial institutions. In addition, at December 31, 2011, we had European peripheral country exposure for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $448 million. See “Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosure about Market Risk—Credit Risk—Country Risk Exposure—Select European Countries.”    Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. 
  The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on
our short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings include the level and quality of our earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, business mix
and actual and perceived levels of government support.    Our debt
ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit

  20 





Table of Contents

derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, we may be
required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. Our long-term credit ratings by Moody’s Investor Services, Inc (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services (“S&P”) are currently at different levels (commonly referred to as “split ratings”). At December 31, 2011, the amounts of additional collateral or termination payments that could be called by
counterparties under the terms of such agreements in the event of a downgrade of our long-term credit rating under various scenarios were as follows: $919 million (A3 Moody’s/A- S&P); $3,989 million (Baa1 Moody’s/ BBB+ S&P); and
$4,743 million (Baa2 Moody’s/BBB S&P). In addition, we are required to pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade. At December 31, 2011, the increased
collateral requirement at certain exchanges and clearing organizations under various scenarios was $118 million (A3 Moody’s/A- S&P); $1,183 million (Baa1 Moody’s/ BBB+ S&P); and $1,775 million (Baa2 Moody’s/BBB S&P).
   The rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer
specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and
business mix. Additionally, the agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our
ratings and those of similar institutions. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Ratings” in Part II, Item 7 herein.
   We are a holding company and depend on payments from our
subsidiaries.    The parent holding company depends on
dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds
freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or
reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our
obligations. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have the authority, and under certain
circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank holding company subsidiaries. 
  Our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the
future could be, adversely affected by U.S. and international markets and economic conditions.    Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely
affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy. Global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in recent years and continue to be, including as a result of the sovereign debt crisis in
the E.U. In particular, our cost and availability of funding have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Continued turbulence in the U.S., the E.U. and other international markets and
economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.   
Market Risk.    Market risk refers to our exposure to adverse changes in the values of our portfolios and financial instruments due to changes in market prices or rates. For more information on how we monitor and manage
market risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein. 
  21 





Table of Contents
Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic
conditions and other factors.    Our results of operations
may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. Our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the
effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential)
lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Act), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), and legal actions in the U.S. and worldwide; the
level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and
long-term debt; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of the Company’s acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including MSSB and with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group, Inc. (“MUFG”)); our reputation; inflation, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; and
technological changes or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may
have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.   
The results of our Institutional Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all
types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new
business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client
assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of
client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Global Wealth Management Group business segment. In addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets
under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management business segment. 
  We may experience declines in the value of our financial instruments
and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions.    Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities particularly during periods of market displacement.
Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately
realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse
effect on our results of operations in future periods.    In
addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as
effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and
on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. However, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, as seen in recent
years, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. 
  22 





Table of Contents
Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses 
  Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our
market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. We commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the
securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region.   
We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector. 
  We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and
real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and
residential real estate markets. At December 31, 2011, the consolidated statements of financial condition included amounts representing real estate investment assets of consolidated subsidiaries of approximately $2.0 billion, including
noncontrolling interests of approximately $1.6 billion. In addition, we had contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to real estate investments of $0.8 billion at December 31,
2011.    We also originate loans secured by commercial and
residential properties. Further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and
commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. In connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible
for, certain representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. Between 2004 and
December 31, 2011, we sponsored approximately $148 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”) primarily containing U.S. residential loans. Of that amount, we made representations and warranties concerning approximately
$47 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21 billion of loans. At December 31, 2011, the current unpaid principal
balance (“UPB”) for all the residential assets subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $23.5 billion and the cumulative losses associated with U.S. RMBS were approximately $10.5 billion. We did not make, or
otherwise agree to be responsible, for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on approximately $80 billion of residential loans that we securitized during that time period. We have not sponsored any U.S. RMBS transactions
since 2007.    We have also made representations and warranties in
connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”). Between 2004 and 2010, we originated approximately $44 billion and $27 billion of U.S.
and non-U.S. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into CMBS sponsored by us. At December 31, 2011, the current UPB for all U.S. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $35.2 billion. At
December 31, 2011, the current UPB when known for all non-U.S. commercial mortgage loans, subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $13.9 billion and the UPB at the time of sale when the current UPB is not known was $0.4
billion.    Over the last several years, the level of litigation and
investigatory activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis-related matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased
claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future. We continue to monitor our real estate-related activities in order to manage our exposures and potential liability from these markets and
businesses. See “Legal Proceedings—Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters” in Part I, Item 3 herein. 
  23 





Table of Contents
Credit Risk. 
  Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty
default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. For more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit
Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.    We are exposed
to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.    We incur significant credit risk exposure through the Institutional Securities business segment. This risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap
or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial
collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. We incur
credit risk in traded securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. 
  We also incur credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business
segment lending to individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit.    While we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that
continued difficult economic conditions may further negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. In addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or
misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. 
  A default by another large financial institution could adversely affect
financial markets generally.    The commercial soundness of
many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to
significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing
houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. See also “Systemic Risk Regime” under “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I,
Item 1 herein.    Operational Risk. 
  Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or damage to
a firm’s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from other internal or external events (e.g., internal or external fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical
assets, security breaches, etc.). We may incur operational risk across our full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading), support functions (e.g., information technology and trade
processing) or other strategic decisions (e.g., the integration of MSSB or other joint ventures, acquisitions or strategic alliances). Legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under
“Legal Risk.” For more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.
   We are subject to operational risk that could adversely
affect our businesses.    Our businesses are highly
dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In general, the transactions we process are increasingly

  24 





Table of Contents

complex. We perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal
systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions.    We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In
the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party’s systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our
businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation.    Our
operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and
other events that could have a security impact on such systems. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ personal, confidential, proprietary or other information
processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems. Furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations, which could result in
reputational damage, litigation or regulatory fines or penalties not covered by insurance maintained by us, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.    Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a
disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, electrical,
environmental, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.   
Legal and Regulatory Risk.   
Legal and compliance risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal
actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements or litigation. Legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty’s performance obligations will be unenforceable.
In today’s environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal risk. For more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see “Risk Management—Legal
Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.    The financial
services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business.   
Like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges
and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we operate, and face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies in all countries in which we conduct our business. Interventions by
authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain
of our businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us.
Significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also
provides a bounty to whistleblowers who present the SEC with information related to securities laws violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. As a result of this bounty, it is possible we could face an increased number of
investigations by the SEC. 
  25 





Table of Contents
In response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, have
adopted, or are currently considering enacting, financial market reforms that have resulted and could result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. In particular, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, we are subject to
significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime which will impose especially high
capital and liquidity requirements, and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. Certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, while other portions will be effective only following rulemaking and extended transition periods,
but many of these changes could in the future materially impact the profitability of our businesses, the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, could
adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. While there continues to be uncertainty about the exact impact of these changes, we do
know that the Company will be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future.    For example, the Volcker Rule provision of the Dodd-Frank Act will have an impact on us, including potentially limiting various
aspects of our business. Regulators have proposed regulations to implement the substantive Volcker Rule provisions and comments were due by February 13, 2012. It is unclear whether final rules will be in place by July 21, 2012 when the
Volcker Rule is to become effective. Even with the publication of proposed rules, however, it is still too early to determine any additional limitations on the Company beyond the restriction on standalone proprietary trading. There remains
considerable uncertainty about the interpretation of the proposed rules, and we are also unable to predict what the final version of the rules will be or the impact they may have on our businesses. We are closely monitoring regulatory developments
related to the Volcker Rule, and when the regulations are final, we will be in a position to complete a review of our relevant activities and make plans to implement compliance with the Volcker Rule. 
  The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is
subject to regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability.    We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory
agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims
for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. Like any large
corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. 
  Substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business,
financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. For example, recently, the level of litigation activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related
matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related
securities in the future and there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from residential mortgage claims that have not yet been notified to us or are not yet determined to be material. For more information
regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 herein.   
Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies.
   We are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted
by regulatory authorities and bodies of the U.S. and other governments. For example, the actions of the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities 
  26 





Table of Contents

directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy
may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict.   
Our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose
us to significant costs and liabilities.    In connection
with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude
oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. In addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and own electricity generating facilities in the
U.S. and Europe; we own TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we own a minority interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a group of
companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services. As a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental
laws and regulations. In addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical
and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. Our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires,
accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations.   
Although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures
for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In addition, insurance covering
some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may
be adversely affected by these events.    We are engaged in
discussions with the Federal Reserve regarding our commodities activities, as the BHC Act provides a grandfather exemption for “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,”
provided that we were engaged in “any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States” and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. If the Federal Reserve were to
determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the BHC Act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the BHC Act by the end of any extensions of the
BHC Act grace period. See also “Scope of Permitted Activities” under “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 herein. 
  We also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities
business to increase in both scope and complexity. During the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and
legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. For example, the U.S. and the E.U. have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased
regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. In addition, new regulation of OTC derivatives markets in the U.S. and similar legislation proposed or adopted
abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. We may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and
reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. 
  27 





Table of Contents
A failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses.
   As a global financial services firm that provides
products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. For example, potential
conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. We have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address
potential conflicts of interest. However, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict
can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. It is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter
into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses.    Our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. In addition, our status as a bank
holding company supervised by the Federal Reserve subjects us to direct Federal Reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our domestic subsidiary banks and their affiliates.    Risk Management.   
Our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or
against all types of risk.    We have devoted significant
resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in
all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not
predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. For example, market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in
using historical information to manage risk. Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and
events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a
broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. We may,
therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading activities. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Market
Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.    Competitive
Environment.    We face strong competition from other
financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.   
The financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial
banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors,
including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions
involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. Such changes 
  28 





Table of Contents

could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. We have
experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we
operate, see “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 herein.   
Automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. 
  We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in
recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic
markets will likely continue. We have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.
   Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is
critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.   
Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must
compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. If we
are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance,
including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation,
clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees.   
International Risk.   
We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which
could adversely impact our businesses in many ways.    We
are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls,
increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services
industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and
negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. 
  Various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic
and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. Crime and corruption, as well as issues of
security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally.    The emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency
as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel
limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. 
  29 





Table of Contents
As a U.S. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered
by OFAC and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide and the FCPA. A violation of a sanction or embargo program or of the FCPA or similar laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, such as the U.K. Bribery
Act, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties.   
Acquisition and Joint Venture Risk.   
We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. 
  In connection with past or future acquisitions, joint ventures (including
MSSB) or strategic alliances (including with MUFG), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls
and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to
liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control.   
For example, the ownership arrangements relating to the Company’s joint venture in Japan with MUFG of their respective investment banking and
securities businesses are complex. MUFG and the Company have integrated their respective Japanese securities businesses by forming two joint venture companies, MUMSS and MSMS. During the first quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a loss of
$655 million arising from its 40% stake in MUMSS related to certain fixed income trading positions at MUMSS, which is a subsidiary of MUFG that is controlled and risk managed by MUFG. While MUFG contributed $370 million in capital to MUMSS in
connection with the trading losses, additional losses could be incurred by MUMSS in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other Matters—Japanese Securities
Joint Venture” in Part II, Item 7 herein.    In addition,
conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture.   
There is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able
to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.    Certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or
indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. These business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory
scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.    For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also “Business—Supervision and
Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 herein.   


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments.   
The Company, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or
current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that the Company received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that the Company believes are material. 
  30 





Table of Contents


Item 2.    Properties.
   The Company and its subsidiaries have offices, operations and data centers located around the world. The Company’s properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are
reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. The Company believes the facilities it owns or occupies are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well maintained. The
Company’s principal offices consist of the following properties:   












Location
  

Owned/
Leased
 
Lease Expiration
 
 
Approximate Square 
Footageas of December 31, 2011(A)

 

 U.S.
Locations

 
 
 
 

 1585
Broadway New York, New York
(Global Headquarters and Institutional Securities Headquarters)
  
Owned
 
 
N/A
  
 
1,346,500 square feet

 
 

 

 2000
Westchester Avenue Purchase, New York
(Global Wealth Management Group Headquarters)
  
Owned
 
 
N/A
  
 
597,400 square feet

 
 

 

 522
Fifth Avenue New York, New York
(Asset Management Headquarters)
  
Owned
 
 
N/A
  
 
581,250 square feet

 
 

 

 New
York, New York (Several locations)
  
Leased
 
 
2012 – 2024
  
 
2,403,600 square feet

 
 

 


Brooklyn, New York
(Several locations)
  
Leased
 
 
2012 – 2023
  
 
530,400 square feet

 
 

 

 Jersey
City, New Jersey (Several locations)
  
Leased
 
 
2012 – 2014
  
 
495,300 square feet

 


 

 International
Locations
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 20
Bank Street London
(London Headquarters)
  
Leased
 
 
2038
  
 
546,500 square feet

 
 

 

 Canary
Wharf London
(Several locations)
  
Leased(B)
 
 
2036
  
 
625,950 square feet

 
 

 

 1
Austin Road West Kowloon
(Hong Kong Headquarters)
  
Leased
 
 
2019
  
 
572,600 square feet

 
 

 


Sapporo’s Yebisu Garden Place,
Ebisu, Shibuya-ku
(Tokyo Headquarters)
  
Leased
 
 
2013
(C) 
 
336,000 square feet
    


(A)
The indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space occupied by Morgan Stanley branch offices. 


(B)
The Company holds the freehold interest in the land and building. 


(C)
Option to return any amount of space up to the full space with six months prior notice. 
  31 





Table of Contents
Item 3.    Legal Proceedings. 
  In addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of
business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services
institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary
defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.   
The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and
self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.
   The Company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as
appropriate in each pending matter. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the
Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income.    In many
proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. The Company cannot predict with certainty if, how or when such proceedings will be resolved or what
the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, particularly for proceedings that are in their early stages of development or where plaintiffs seek substantial or indeterminate damages. Numerous issues may need to be
resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions
relevant to the proceedings in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for any proceeding. Subject to the foregoing, the Company believes, based on current knowledge and after
consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company, although the outcome of such proceedings could be material to the Company’s
operating results and cash flows for a particular period depending on, among other things, the level of the Company’s revenues or income for such period.   
Over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters has
increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, the Company expects that it may become the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future and, while
the Company has identified below certain proceedings that the Company believes to be material, individually or collectively, there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from residential mortgage claims that have
not yet been notified to the Company or are not yet determined to be material.    Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters.    Regulatory and Governmental Matters.    The Company is responding to subpoenas and requests for information from certain regulatory and governmental entities concerning
the origination, financing, purchase, securitization and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages and related matters such as residential mortgage backed securities (“RMBS”), collateralized debt obligations
(“CDOs”), structured investment vehicles (“SIVs”) and credit default swaps backed by or referencing mortgage pass through certificates. These matters include, but are not limited to, investigations related to the Company’s
due diligence on the loans that it purchased for securitization, the Company’s communications with ratings agencies, the Company’s disclosures to investors, and the Company’s handling of servicing and foreclosure related issues.
   Class Actions.    Beginning in
December 2007, several purported class action complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the “SDNY”) asserting claims on behalf of participants in the Company’s 401(k) plan
and employee stock ownership plan against the Company and other 
  32 





Table of Contents

parties, including certain present and former directors and officers, under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). In February 2008, these actions were
consolidated in a single proceeding, which is styled In re Morgan Stanley ERISA Litigation. The consolidated complaint relates in large part to the Company’s subprime and other mortgage related losses, but also includes allegations
regarding the Company’s disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other matters. The consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, that the Company’s common stock was not a prudent investment and that risks associated with its
common stock and its financial condition were not adequately disclosed. Plaintiffs are seeking, among other relief, class certification, unspecified compensatory damages, costs, interest and fees. On December 9, 2009, the court denied
defendants’ motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint.    On
March 16, 2011, a purported class action, styled Coulter v. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated et al., was filed in the SDNY asserting claims on behalf of participants in the Company’s 401(k) plan and employee stock
ownership plan against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors for breach of fiduciary duties under ERISA. The complaint alleges, among other things, that defendants knew or should have known that from January 2, 2008
to December 31, 2008, the plans’ investment in Company stock was imprudent given the extraordinary risks faced by the Company and its common stock during that period. Plaintiffs are seeking, among other relief, class certification,
unspecified compensatory damages, costs, interest and fees. On July 20, 2011, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint and on October 28, 2011, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. 
  On February 12, 2008, a plaintiff filed a purported class action, which
was amended on November 24, 2008, naming the Company and certain present and former senior executives as defendants and asserting claims for violations of the securities laws. The amended complaint, which is styled Joel Stratte-McClure, et
al. v. Morgan Stanley, et al., is currently pending in the SDNY. Subject to certain exclusions, the amended complaint asserts claims on behalf of a purported class of persons and entities who purchased shares of the Company’s common
stock during the period June 20, 2007 to December 19, 2007 and who suffered damages as a result of such purchases. The allegations in the amended complaint relate in large part to the Company’s subprime and other mortgage related
losses, but also include allegations regarding the Company’s disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other matters. Plaintiffs are seeking, among other relief, class certification, unspecified compensatory damages, costs, interest and
fees. On April 27, 2009, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On April 4, 2011, the court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and granted plaintiffs leave to file an amended complaint with respect to certain
of their allegations. On June 9, 2011, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint in response to the court’s order of April 4, 2011. On August 8, 2011, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint.
   On May 7, 2009, the Company was named as a defendant in a
purported class action lawsuit brought under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), alleging, among other things, that the registration statements and offering documents related to the
offerings of approximately $17 billion of mortgage pass through certificates in 2006 and 2007 contained false and misleading information concerning the pools of residential loans that backed these securitizations. The plaintiffs sought, among other
relief, class certification, unspecified compensatory and rescissionary damages, costs, interest and fees. This case, which was consolidated with an earlier lawsuit and is currently styled In re Morgan Stanley Mortgage Pass-Through Certificate
Litigation, is pending in the SDNY. On August 17, 2010, the court dismissed the claims brought by the lead plaintiff, but gave a different plaintiff leave to file a second amended complaint. On September 10, 2010, that plaintiff,
together with several new plaintiffs, filed a second amended complaint which purported to assert claims against the Company and others on behalf of a class of investors who purchased approximately $4.7 billion of mortgage pass through certificates
issued in 2006 by seven trusts collectively containing residential mortgage loans. The second amended complaint asserted claims under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act, and alleged, among other things, that the registration statements and
offering documents related to the offerings contained false and misleading information concerning the pools of residential loans that backed these securitizations. The plaintiffs sought, among other relief, class certification, unspecified
compensatory and rescissionary damages, costs, interest and fees. On September 15, 2011, the court granted in 
  33 





Table of Contents

part and denied in part the defendants’ motion to dismiss and granted the plaintiffs’ request to file another amended complaint. On September 29, 2011, the defendants moved for
reconsideration of a portion of the court’s decision partially denying the motion to dismiss. On September 30, 2011, the plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint purporting to bring claims on behalf of a class of investors who purchased
approximately $2.7 billion of mortgage pass through certificates issued in 2006 by five trusts. The defendants moved to dismiss the third amended complaint on October 17, 2011.
  Beginning in 2007, the Company was named as a defendant in several putative
class action lawsuits brought under Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act, related to its role as a member of the syndicates that underwrote offerings of securities and mortgage pass through certificates for certain non-Morgan Stanley related
entities that have been exposed to subprime and other mortgage-related losses. The plaintiffs in these actions allege, among other things, that the registration statements and offering documents for the offerings at issue contained material
misstatements or omissions related to the extent to which the issuers were exposed to subprime and other mortgage-related risks and other matters and seek various forms of relief including class certification, unspecified compensatory and
rescissionary damages, costs, interest and fees. The Company’s exposure to potential losses in these cases may be impacted by various factors including, among other things, the financial condition of the entities that issued or sponsored the
securities and mortgage pass through certificates at issue, the principal amount of the offerings underwritten by the Company, the financial condition of co-defendants and the willingness and ability of the issuers (or their affiliates) to indemnify
the underwriter defendants. Some of these cases, including In Re Washington Mutual, Inc. Securities Litigation, In re: Lehman Brothers Equity/Debt Securities Litigation and In re IndyMac Mortgage-Backed Securities Litigation, relate to
issuers or sponsors (or their affiliates) that have filed for bankruptcy or have been placed into receivership.    In re: Lehman Brothers Equity/Debt Securities Litigation is pending in the SDNY and relates to several offerings of debt and equity securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. during 2007
and 2008. The Company underwrote approximately $232 million of the principal amount of the offerings at issue. On September 23, 2011, a group of underwriter defendants, including the Company, reached an agreement in principle with the class
plaintiffs to settle the litigation. On December 15, 2011, the Court presiding over this action issued an order preliminarily approving the settlement. The settlement hearing is currently scheduled for April 12, 2012. 
  In re IndyMac Mortgage-Backed Securities Litigation is pending in the
SDNY and relates to offerings of mortgage pass through certificates issued by seven trusts sponsored by affiliates of IndyMac Bancorp during 2006 and 2007. The Company underwrote over $1.4 billion of the principal amount of the offerings originally
at issue. On June 21, 2010, the court granted in part and denied in part the underwriter defendants’ motion to dismiss the amended consolidated class action complaint. The Company underwrote approximately $46 million of the principal
amount of the offerings at issue following the court’s June 21, 2010 decision. On May 17, 2010, certain putative plaintiffs filed a motion to intervene in the litigation in order to assert claims related to additional offerings. The
principal amount of the additional offerings underwritten by the Company is approximately $1.2 billion. On June 21, 2011, the Company successfully opposed the motion to add the additional plaintiffs as to the Company. On July 20, 2011 and
July 21, 2011, certain of the additional plaintiffs filed appeals in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Company is opposing the appeals. 
  Luther, et al. v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al., pending
in the Superior Court of the State of California, involves claims related to the Company’s role as an underwriter of various residential mortgage backed securities offerings issued by affiliates of Countrywide Financial Corporation. The amended
complaint includes allegations that the registration statements and the offering documents contained false and misleading statements about the residential mortgage loans backing the securities. The Company underwrote approximately $6.3 billion
of the principal amount of the offerings at issue. On January 6, 2010, the Court dismissed the case for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. On May 18, 2011, a California court of appeals reversed the dismissal and reinstated the
complaint. On December 19, 2011, defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. On February 3, 2012, defendants moved to stay the case pending resolution of a securities class action brought by the same plaintiffs, styled Maine State
Retirement System v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al., in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. 
  34 





Table of Contents
Other Litigation. On August 25, 2008, the Company and two ratings agencies were
named as defendants in a purported class action related to securities issued by a SIV called Cheyne Finance (the “Cheyne SIV”). The case is styled Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, et al. v. Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc., et al. and
is pending in the SDNY. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the ratings assigned to the securities issued by the SIV were false and misleading because the ratings did not accurately reflect the risks associated with the subprime RMBS
held by the SIV. On September 2, 2009, the court dismissed all of the claims against the Company except for plaintiffs’ claims for common law fraud. On June 15, 2010, the court denied plaintiffs’ motion for class certification.
On July 20, 2010, the court granted plaintiffs leave to replead their aiding and abetting common law fraud claims against the Company, and those claims were added in an amended complaint filed on August 5, 2010. On December 27, 2011,
the court permitted plaintiffs to reinstate their causes of action for negligent misrepresentation and breach of fiduciary duty against the Company. The Company moved to dismiss these claims on January 10, 2012. On January 5, 2012, the
court permitted plaintiffs to amend their complaint and assert a negligence claim against the Company. The amended complaint was filed on January 9, 2012 and the Company moved to dismiss the negligence claim on January 17, 2012. On
January 23, 2012, the Company moved for summary judgment with respect to the fraud and aiding and abetting fraud claims. Plaintiffs have not alleged the amount of their alleged investments, and are seeking, among other relief, unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages. There are 15 plaintiffs in this action asserting claims related to approximately $983 million of securities issued by the SIV. 
  On September 25, 2009, the Company was named as a defendant in a lawsuit
styled Citibank, N.A. v. Morgan Stanley & Co. International, PLC, pending in the SDNY. The lawsuit relates to a credit default swap referencing the Capmark VI CDO, which was structured by Citibank, N.A. (“Citi N.A.”).
At issue is whether, as part of the swap agreement, Citi N.A. was obligated to obtain the Company’s prior written consent before it exercised its rights to liquidate Capmark upon the occurrence of certain contractually-defined credit events.
Citi N.A. is seeking approximately $245 million in compensatory damages plus interest and costs. On May 25, 2011, the court issued an order denying the Company’s motion for summary judgment and granting Citi N.A.’s cross motion for
summary judgment. On June 27, 2011, the court entered a final judgment against the Company for approximately $269 million plus post-judgment interest, and the Company filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, which appeal is now pending.    On December 14,
2009, Central Mortgage Company (“CMC”) filed a complaint against the Company, in a matter styled Central Mortgage Company v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, pending in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware.
The complaint alleged that that Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC improperly refused to repurchase certain mortgage loans that CMC, as servicer, was required to repurchase from the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie
Mac”) and the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”). On November 4, 2011, CMC filed an amended complaint adding claims related to its purchase of servicing rights in connection with approximately $4.1 billion of
residential loans deposited into RMBS trusts sponsored by the Company. The amended complaint asserts claims for breach of contract, quasi-contract, equitable and tort claims and seeks compensatory damages and equitable remedies, including
rescission, injunctive relief, damages, restitution and disgorgement. On January 9, 2012, the Company moved to dismiss the amended complaint. 
  35 





Table of Contents
On December 23, 2009, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle filed a complaint against the Company
and another defendant in the Superior Court of the State of Washington, styled Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle v. Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc., et al. An amended complaint was filed on September 28, 2010. The complaint
alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates
allegedly sold to plaintiff by the Company was approximately $233 million. The complaint raises claims under the Washington State Securities Act and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff’s purchase of such
certificates. On October 18, 2010, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the action. By orders dated June 23, 2011 and July 18, 2011, the court denied defendants’ omnibus motion to dismiss plaintiff’s amended
complaint and on August 15, 2011, the court denied the Company’s individual motion to dismiss the amended complaint.   
On March 15, 2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco filed two complaints against the Company and other defendants in the Superior
Court of the State of California. These actions are styled Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, et al., and Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v. Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. et al., respectively. Amended complaints were filed on June 10, 2010. The complaints allege that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of a number of mortgage
pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the Company in these cases was approximately $704 million and $276 million, respectively. The
complaints raise claims under both the federal securities laws and California law and seek, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff’s purchase of such certificates. On April 18, 2011, defendants in these actions filed
an omnibus demurrer and motion to strike the amended complaints. On July 29, 2011 and September 8, 2011, the court presiding over both actions sustained defendants’ demurrers with respect to claims brought under the Securities
Act, and overruled defendants’ demurrers with respect to all other claims.    On June 10, 2010, the Company was named as a new defendant in a pre-existing purported class action related to securities issued by a SIV called Rhinebridge plc (“Rhinebridge SIV”). The
case is styled King County, Washington, et al. v. IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG, et al. and is pending in the SDNY. The complaint asserts claims for common law fraud and aiding and abetting common law fraud and alleges, among other things,
that the ratings assigned to the securities issued by the SIV were false and misleading, including because the ratings did not accurately reflect the risks associated with the subprime RMBS held by the SIV. On July 15, 2010, the Company moved
to dismiss the complaint. That motion was denied on October 29, 2010. On December 27, 2011, the court permitted plaintiffs to amend their complaint and assert causes of action for negligence, negligent misrepresentation, and breach of
fiduciary duty against the Company. The amended complaint was filed on January 10, 2012 and the Company moved to dismiss the negligence, negligent misrepresentation, and breach of fiduciary duty claims on January 31, 2012. The case is
pending before the same judge presiding over the litigation concerning the Cheyne SIV, described above. While reserving their ability to act otherwise, plaintiffs have indicated that they do not currently plan to file a motion for class
certification. Plaintiffs have not alleged the amount of their alleged investments, and are seeking, among other relief, unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. 
  On July 9, 2010, Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc. filed a
complaint against the Company and other defendants in the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, styled Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc. v. Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc., et al. The complaint
asserts claims on behalf of certain clients of plaintiff’s affiliates and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale of a number of mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization
trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company or sold to plaintiff’s affiliates’ clients by the Company was approximately $242 million. The complaint raises
claims under the Massachusetts Uniform Securities Act and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff’s purchase of such certificates. On February 11, 2011, Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc. filed a second
complaint against the Company and other defendants in the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts also styled Cambridge Place 
  36 





Table of Contents

Investment Management Inc. v. Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc. et al. The complaint asserts claims on behalf of clients of plaintiff’s affiliates, and alleges that the defendants
made untrue statements and material omissions in selling certain mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued or underwritten by the
Company or sold to plaintiff’s affiliates’ clients by the Company was approximately $102 million. The complaint raises claims under the Massachusetts Uniform Securities Act and seeks, among other things, to rescind the
plaintiff’s purchase of such certificates. On October 14, 2011, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in each action. On November 22, 2011, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaints. 
  On July 15, 2010, The Charles Schwab Corp. filed a complaint against the
Company and other defendants in the Superior Court of the State of California, styled The Charles Schwab Corp. v. BNP Paribas Securities Corp., et al. The complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in
the sale to one of plaintiff’s subsidiaries of a number of mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sold to
plaintiff’s subsidiary by the Company was approximately $180 million. The complaint raises claims under both the federal securities laws and California law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff’s
purchase of such certificates. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on August 2, 2010. On September 22, 2011, defendants filed demurrers to the amended complaint. On October 13, 2011, plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its claims
brought under the Securities Act. On January 27, 2012, the court, in a ruling from the bench, substantially overruled defendants’ demurrers.   
On July 15, 2010, China Development Industrial Bank (“CDIB”) filed a complaint against the Company, which is styled China Development
Industrial Bank v. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and is pending in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County. The Complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the
STACK 2006-1 CDO. The complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent concealment and alleges that the Company misrepresented the risks of the STACK 2006-1 CDO to CDIB, and that the Company knew that the assets
backing the CDO were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with CDIB. The complaint seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that CDIB alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap,
rescission of CDIB’s obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief, fees and costs. On September 30, 2010, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. On February 28, 2011, the Court denied
the Company’s motion to dismiss the complaint. On March 21, 2011, the Company appealed the order denying its motion to dismiss the complaint. On July 7, 2011, the appellate court affirmed the lower court’s decision denying the
Company’s motion to dismiss.    On October 15,
2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago filed two complaints against the Company and other defendants. One was filed in the Circuit Court of the State of Illinois and is styled Federal Home Loan Bank
of Chicago v. Bank of America Funding Corporation et al. The other was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California and is styled Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Bank of America
Securities LLC, et al. The complaints allege that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of a number of mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing
residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the Company in the two actions was approximately $203 million and $75 million respectively. The complaint filed in Illinois raises claims
under Illinois law. The complaint filed in California raises claims under the federal securities laws, Illinois law and California law. Both complaints seek, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff’s purchase of such
certificates. On March 24, 2011, the Court presiding over Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Bank of America Funding Corporation et al. granted plaintiff leave to file an amended complaint. On May 27, 2011,
defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which motion is currently pending. On September 15, 2011, plaintiff filed an amended complaint in Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Bank of America Securities LLC, et
al. On December 1, 2011, defendants filed a demurrer to the amended complaint, which demurrer is currently pending. 
  37 





Table of Contents
On April 20, 2011, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston filed a complaint against the Company and
other defendants in the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts styled Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston v. Ally Financial, Inc. F/K/A GMAC LLC et al. The complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and
material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company or sold to plaintiff by
the Company was approximately $550 million. The complaint raises claims under the Massachusetts Uniform Securities Act, the Massachusetts consumer protection act and common law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the
plaintiff’s purchase of such certificates. On May 26, 2011, defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and on June 22, 2011, plaintiff filed a motion to remand the case back to
state court.    On July 5, 2011, Allstate Insurance
Company and certain of its affiliated entities filed a complaint against the Company in New York State Supreme Court styled Allstate Insurance Company, et al. v. Morgan Stanley, et al. The complaint alleges that
defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued
and/or sold to plaintiffs by the Company was approximately $104 million. The complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud and negligent misrepresentation and seeks, among other
things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages associated with plaintiffs’ purchases of such certificates. On September 9, 2011, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. On October 14, 2011, defendants filed a motion
to dismiss the amended complaint, which motion is currently pending.    On July 18, 2011, the Western and Southern Life Insurance Company and certain affiliated companies filed a complaint against the Company and other defendants in the Court of Common Pleas in
Ohio, styled Western and Southern Life Insurance Company, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc., et al. The complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain
mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The amount of the certificates allegedly sold to plaintiffs by the Company was approximately $153 million. The complaint raises claims
under the Ohio Securities Act, federal securities laws, and common law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiffs’ purchases of such certificates. 
  On September 2, 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency
(“FHFA”), as conservator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, filed 17 complaints against numerous financial services companies, including the Company. A complaint against the Company and other defendants was filed in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, styled Federal Housing Finance Agency, as Conservator v. Morgan Stanley et al. The complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac of residential mortgage pass through certificates with an original unpaid balance of approximately $11 billion. The complaint raises claims under federal and state securities laws and common law and seeks, among other things, rescission and
compensatory and punitive damages. On September 26, 2011, defendants removed the action to the SDNY and on October 26, 2011, the FHFA moved to remand the action back to the Supreme Court of the State of New York. 
  On September 2, 2011, the FHFA, as conservator for Freddie
Mac, also filed a complaint against the Company and other defendants in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, styled Federal Housing Finance Agency, as Conservator v. General Electric Company et al. The complaint alleges that
defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to Freddie Mac of residential mortgage pass through certificates with an original unpaid balance of approximately $549 million. The complaint raises
claims under federal and state securities laws and common law and seeks, among other things, rescission and compensatory and punitive damages. On October 6, 2011, defendants removed the action to the SDNY and on November 7, 2011, the
FHFA moved to remand the action back to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.    On November 4, 2011, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as receiver for Franklin Bank S.S.B, filed two complaints against the Company in the District Court of the State of Texas. Each is
styled Federal Deposit 
  38 





Table of Contents

Insurance Corporation, as Receiver for Franklin Bank S.S.B v. Morgan Stanley & Company LLC F/K/A Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc. and alleges that the Company made untrue
statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The amount of certificates allegedly underwritten and sold
to plaintiff by the Company in these cases was approximately $67 million and $35 million, respectively. The complaints each raise claims under both federal securities law and the Texas Securities Act and each seeks, among other
things, compensatory damages associated with plaintiff’s purchase of such certificates.    On January 20, 2012, Sealink Funding Limited filed a complaint against the Company in the Supreme Court of the State of New York styled Sealink Funding Limited v. Morgan Stanley, et
al. Plaintiff purports to be the assignee of claims of certain special purpose vehicles (“SPVs”) formerly sponsored by SachsenLB Europe. The complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the
sale to the SPVs of certain mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company and/or sold by the Company was approximately $556
million. The complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud and negligent misrepresentation and seeks, among other things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages associated
with plaintiffs’ purchases of such certificates.    On
January 25, 2012, Dexia SA/NV and certain of its affiliated entities filed a complaint against the Company in the Supreme Court of the State of New York styled Dexia SA/NV et al. v. Morgan Stanley, et al. The complaint
alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates
allegedly issued by the Company and/or sold to plaintiffs by the Company was approximately $680 million. The complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud and negligent misrepresentation and
seeks, among other things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages associated with plaintiffs’ purchases of such certificates.   
On January 25, 2012, Bayerische Landesbank, New York Branch filed a complaint against the Company in the Supreme Court of the State of New
York styled Bayerische Landesbank, New York Branch v. Morgan Stanley, et al. The complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass through certificates
backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company and/or sold to plaintiff by the Company was approximately $486 million. The complaint raises common law
claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud and negligent misrepresentation and seeks, among other things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages associated with plaintiffs’ purchases of such
certificates.    Other Matters. On a
case-by-case basis the Company has entered into agreements to toll the statute of limitations applicable to potential civil claims related to RMBS, CDOs and other mortgage-related products and services when the Company has concluded that it is in
its interest to do so.    On October 18, 2011, the
Company received a letter from Gibbs & Bruns LLP (the “Law Firm”), which is purportedly representing a group of investment advisers and holders of mortgage pass through certificates issued by RMBS trusts that were sponsored or
underwritten by the Company. The letter asserted that the Law Firm’s clients collectively hold 25% or more of the voting rights in 17 RMBS trusts sponsored or underwritten by the Company and that these trusts have an aggregate outstanding
balance exceeding $6 billion. The letter alleged generally that large numbers of mortgages in these trusts were sold or deposited into the trusts based on false and/or fraudulent representations and warranties by the mortgage originators, sellers
and/or depositors. The letter also alleged generally that there is evidence suggesting that the Company has failed prudently to service mortgage loans in these trusts. On January 31, 2012, the Law Firm announced that its clients hold over 25%
of the voting rights in 69 RMBS trusts securing over $25 billion of RMBS sponsored or underwritten by the Company, and that its clients had issued instructions to the trustees of these trusts to open investigations into

  39 





Table of Contents

allegedly ineligible mortgages held by these trusts. The Law Firm’s press release also indicated that the Law Firm’s clients anticipate that they may provide additional instructions to
the trustees, as needed, to further the investigations.   
Shareholder Derivative Matter.   
On February 11, 2010, a shareholder derivative complaint styled Security, Police and Fire Professionals of America Retirement Fund,
et al. v. John J. Mack et al. was filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. The complaint is purportedly for the benefit of the Company, and is brought against certain current and former directors and officers of the Company, to
recover damages for alleged acts of corporate waste, breaches of the duty of loyalty, and unjust enrichment based on the amount of compensation awarded to an undefined group of employees for fiscal years 2006, 2007 and 2009. The complaint seeks,
among other relief, unspecified compensatory damages, restitution and disgorgement of compensation, benefits and profits, and institution of certain corporate governance reforms. On December 9, 2010, the court granted defendants’ motion to
dismiss the complaint and on February 4, 2011, plaintiffs noticed an appeal of that dismissal, which appeal is pending.   
China Matter.   
As disclosed in February 2009, the Company uncovered actions initiated by an employee based in China in an overseas real estate subsidiary that appear to
have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company terminated the employee, reported the activity to appropriate authorities and is cooperating with investigations by the United States Department of Justice and the SEC. 
  The following matters were terminated during the quarter ended
December 31, 2011:    In Re Washington Mutual, Inc.
Securities Litigation, which had been pending in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, involved claims under the Securities Act related to three offerings by Washington Mutual Inc. in 2006 and 2007. The Company
was one of several underwriters who participated in the offerings. The Company underwrote approximately $1.3 billion of the securities covered by the class certified by the court. On November 4, 2011, a final settlement among the parties was
approved by the court.    Employees’ Retirement System of
the Government of the Virgin Islands v. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, et al., which had been pending in the SDNY, involved claims for common law fraud and unjust enrichment against the Company related to the Libertas III CDO. On
November 3, 2011, the Court dismissed the action with prejudice.    MBIA Insurance Corporation v. Morgan Stanley, et al. which had been pending in New York Supreme Court, Westchester County, involved claims for fraud, breach of contract and unjust enrichment
against the Company related to MBIA Insurance Corporation’s (“MBIA’s”) contract to insure approximately $223 million of residential mortgage pass through certificates related a second lien securitization sponsored by the Company
in June 2007. On December 13, 2011, the Company and MBIA entered into an agreement to settle this litigation and to resolve certain claims that the Company had against MBIA. 
 


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures   
Not applicable. 
  40 





Table of Contents
Part II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
  Morgan Stanley’s common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol
“MS.” As of February 23, 2012, the Company had 90,959 holders of record; however, the Company believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number.    The table below sets forth, for each of the last eight quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of the Company’s
common stock as reported by Bloomberg Financial Markets and the amount of any cash dividends per share of the Company’s common stock declared by its Board of Directors for such quarter. 
 
















 
  
LowSale Price
 
  
HighSale Price
 
  
Dividends
 

 2011:
  



  



  




 Fourth Quarter
  
$
11.58
  
  
$
19.67
  
  
$
0.05
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
12.49
  
  
$
24.46
  
  
$
0.05
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
21.76
  
  
$
28.24
  
  
$
0.05
  

 First Quarter
  
$
26.70
  
  
$
31.04
  
  
$
0.05
  

 2010:
  



  



  




 Fourth Quarter
  
$
23.95
  
  
$
27.77
  
  
$
0.05
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
22.40
  
  
$
28.05
  
  
$
0.05
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
23.14
  
  
$
32.29
  
  
$
0.05
  

 First Quarter
  
$
26.15
  
  
$
33.27
  
  
$
0.05
  

  41 





Table of Contents
The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of the Company of
its common stock during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2011.    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  (dollars in millions, except per
share amounts)   




















 Period
 
TotalNumberofSharesPurchased
 
 
AveragePricePaid PerShare
 
 
Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor
Programs(C)
 
 
Approximate DollarValue of Sharesthat May Yet BePurchased Underthe
Plans orPrograms
 

 Month #1 (October 1, 2011—October 31, 2011)
 



 



 



 




 Share Repurchase Program(A)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
1,560
  

 Employee Transactions(B)
 
 
83,427
  
 
$
15.16
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Month #2 (November 1, 2011—November 30, 2011)
 



 



 



 




 Share Repurchase Program(A)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
1,560
  

 Employee Transactions(B)
 
 
30,453
  
 
$
15.91
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Month #3 (December 1, 2011—December 31, 2011)
 



 



 



 




 Share Repurchase Program(A)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
1,560
  

 Employee Transactions(B)
 
 
239,301
  
 
$
15.12
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Total
 



 



 



 




 Share Repurchase Program(A)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
1,560
  

 Employee Transactions(B)
 
 
353,181
  
 
$
15.20
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  


(A)
On December 19, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company’s outstanding stock under
a share repurchase program (the “Share Repurchase Program”). The Share Repurchase Program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation
and benefit plan requirements. The Share Repurchase Program has no set expiration or termination date. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. 


(B)
Includes: (1) shares delivered or attested in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligations by holders of employee and director stock
options (granted under employee and director stock compensation plans) who exercised options; (2) shares withheld, delivered or attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding
obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted shares; (3) shares withheld, delivered and attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur
upon the delivery of outstanding shares underlying restricted stock units; and (4) shares withheld, delivered and attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset the cash payment for
fractional shares. The Company’s employee and director stock compensation plans provide that the value of the shares withheld, delivered or attested, shall be valued using the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date the
relevant transaction occurs, using a valuation methodology established by the Company. 


(C)
Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with
employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the Company deems appropriate.   
*** 
  42 





Table of Contents
Stock performance graph.    The following graph compares the cumulative total
shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of the Company’s common stock, the S&P 500 Stock Index (“S&P 500”) and the S&P 500 Financials Index (“S5FINL”) for the last five years. The graph assumes a
$100 investment at the closing price on December 29, 2006 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. Historical prices are adjusted to reflect the spin-off of Discover Financial Services
completed on June 30, 2007. This graph does not forecast future performance of the Company’s common stock.    

  
















 
  
MS
 
  
S&P 500
 
  
S5FINL
 

 12/29/2006
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
100.00
  

 12/31/2007
  
$
79.72
  
  
$
103.53
  
  
$
79.16
  

 12/31/2008
  
$
24.91
  
  
$
63.69
  
  
$
34.08
  

 12/31/2009
  
$
46.82
  
  
$
78.62
  
  
$
39.12
  

 12/31/2010
  
$
43.36
  
  
$
88.67
  
  
$
43.36
  

 12/30/2011
  
$
24.31
  
  
$
88.67
  
  
$
35.38
  

  43 





Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data.   
MORGAN STANLEY   
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)   




























 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009(1)(2)
 
 
Fiscal2008
 
 
Fiscal2007
 
 
One MonthEndedDecember 31,2008(2)
 

 Income Statement Data:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Revenues:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Investment banking
 
$
4,991
  
 
$
5,122
  
 
$
5,020
  
 
$
4,057
  
 
$
6,321
  
 
$
196
  

 Principal transactions:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Trading
 
 
12,392
  
 
 
9,406
  
 
 
7,723
  
 
 
6,083
  
 
 
1,843
  
 
 
(1,491
) 

 Investments
 
 
573
  
 
 
1,825
  
 
 
(1,034
) 
 
 
(3,888
) 
 
 
3,328
  
 
 
(205
) 

 Commissions and fees
 
 
5,379
  
 
 
4,947
  
 
 
4,233
  
 
 
4,443
  
 
 
4,654
  
 
 
213
  

 Asset management, distribution and administration fees
 
 
8,502
  
 
 
7,919
  
 
 
5,841
  
 
 
4,839
  
 
 
5,486
  
 
 
292
  

 Other
 
 
209
  
 
 
1,271
  
 
 
707
  
 
 
3,855
  
 
 
696
  
 
 
108
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest revenues
 
 
32,046
  
 
 
30,490
  
 
 
22,490
  
 
 
19,389
  
 
 
22,328
  
 
 
(887
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest income
 
 
7,264
  
 
 
7,311
  
 
 
7,477
  
 
 
38,928
  
 
 
61,256
  
 
 
1,089
  

 Interest expense
 
 
6,907
  
 
 
6,414
  
 
 
6,687
  
 
 
36,226
  
 
 
57,124
  
 
 
1,138
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest
 
 
357
  
 
 
897
  
 
 
790
  
 
 
2,702
  
 
 
4,132
  
 
 
(49
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
 
 
32,403
  
 
 
31,387
  
 
 
23,280
  
 
 
22,091
  
 
 
26,460
  
 
 
(936
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-interest expenses:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Compensation and benefits
 
 
16,403
  
 
 
15,923
  
 
 
14,331
  
 
 
11,759
  
 
 
15,981
  
 
 
578
  

 Other
 
 
9,886
  
 
 
9,233
  
 
 
7,819
  
 
 
8,905
  
 
 
7,453
  
 
 
473
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest expenses
 
 
26,289
  
 
 
25,156
  
 
 
22,150
  
 
 
20,664
  
 
 
23,434
  
 
 
1,051
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
 
 
6,114
  
 
 
6,231
  
 
 
1,130
  
 
 
1,427
  
 
 
3,026
  
 
 
(1,987
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
 
 
1,418
  
 
 
754
  
 
 
(297
) 
 
 
132
  
 
 
719
  
 
 
(721
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
4,696
  
 
 
5,477
  
 
 
1,427
  
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
2,307
  
 
 
(1,266
) 

 Discontinued operations(3):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(175
) 
 
 
577
  
 
 
(114
) 
 
 
831
  
 
 
1,432
  
 
 
(22
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
 
 
(124
) 
 
 
352
  
 
 
(93
) 
 
 
348
  
 
 
490
  
 
 
(3
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(51
) 
 
 
225
  
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
483
  
 
 
942
  
 
 
(19
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
 
4,645
  
 
 
5,702
  
 
 
1,406
  
 
 
1,778
  
 
 
3,249
  
 
 
(1,285
) 

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
535
  
 
 
999
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
3
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley
 
$
4,110
  
 
$
4,703
  
 
$
1,346
  
 
$
1,707
  
 
$
3,209
  
 
$
(1,288
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders(4)
 
$
2,067
  
 
$
3,594
  
 
$
(907
) 
 
$
1,495
  
 
$
2,976
  
 
$
(1,624
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts applicable to Morgan Stanley:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
4,161
  
 
$
4,478
  
 
$
1,383
  
 
$
1,262
  
 
$
2,269
  
 
$
(1,266
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(51
) 
 
 
225
  
 
 
(37
) 
 
 
445
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
(22
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley
 
$
4,110
  
 
$
4,703
  
 
$
1,346
  
 
$
1,707
  
 
$
3,209
  
 
$
(1,288
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  44 





Table of Contents




























 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009(1)(2)
 
 
Fiscal 2008
 
 
Fiscal 2007
 
 
One MonthEndedDecember 31,2008(2)
 

 Per Share Data:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Earnings (loss) per basic common share(5):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
1.28
  
 
$
2.49
  
 
$
(0.73
) 
 
$
1.05
  
 
$
2.08
  
 
$
(1.60
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.15
  
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.40
  
 
 
0.89
  
 
 
(0.02
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share
 
$
1.25
  
 
$
2.64
  
 
$
(0.77
) 
 
$
1.45
  
 
$
2.97
  
 
$
(1.62
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share(5):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
1.26
  
 
$
2.45
  
 
$
(0.73
) 
 
$
1.01
  
 
$
2.03
  
 
$
(1.60
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.18
  
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.38
  
 
 
0.87
  
 
 
(0.02
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share
 
$
1.23
  
 
$
2.63
  
 
$
(0.77
) 
 
$
1.39
  
 
$
2.90
  
 
$
(1.62
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Book value per common share(6)
 
$
31.42
  
 
$
31.49
  
 
$
27.26
  
 
$
30.24
  
 
$
28.56
  
 
$
27.53
  

 Dividends declared per common share
 
$
0.20
  
 
$
0.20
  
 
$
0.17
  
 
$
1.08
  
 
$
1.08
  
 
$
0.27
  









 Balance Sheet and Other Operating Data:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
 
$
749,898
  
 
$
807,698
  
 
$
771,462
  
 
$
659,035
  
 
$
1,045,409
  
 
$
676,764
  

 Total capital(7)
 
 
211,201
  
 
 
222,757
  
 
 
213,974
  
 
 
192,297
  
 
 
191,085
  
 
 
208,008
  

 Long-term borrowings(7)
 
 
149,152
  
 
 
165,546
  
 
 
167,286
  
 
 
141,466
  
 
 
159,816
  
 
 
159,255
  

 Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity
 
 
62,049
  
 
 
57,211
  
 
 
46,688
  
 
 
50,831
  
 
 
31,269
  
 
 
48,753
  

 Return on average common shareholders’ equity
 
 
3.9
% 
 
 
8.5
% 
 
 
N/M
  
 
 
3.4
% 
 
 
6.9
% 
 
 
N/M
  

 Average common shares outstanding(4):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Basic
 
 
1,654,708,640
  
 
 
1,361,670,938
  
 
 
1,185,414,871
  
 
 
1,028,180,275
  
 
 
1,001,878,651
  
 
 
1,002,058,928
  

 Diluted
 
 
1,675,271,669
  
 
 
1,411,268,971
  
 
 
1,185,414,871
  
 
 
1,073,496,349
  
 
 
1,024,836,645
  
 
 
1,002,058,928
  
  
N/M—Not Meaningful. 


(1)
Information includes Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC effective May 31, 2009 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).



(2)
On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a change in the Company’s fiscal year-end from November 30 to December 31 of
each year. This change to the calendar year reporting cycle began January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the Company had a one-month transition period in December 2008. 


(3)
Prior-period amounts have been recast for discontinued operations. See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for information on discontinued
operations. 


(4)
Amounts shown are used to calculate earnings per basic and diluted common share. 


(5)
For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 


(6)
Book value per common share equals common shareholders’ equity of $60,541 million at December 31, 2011, $47,614 million at December 31, 2010, $37,091
million at December 31, 2009, $31,676 million at November 30, 2008, $30,169 million at November 30, 2007 and $29,585 million at December 31, 2008, divided by common shares outstanding of 1,927 million at December 31,
2011, 1,512 million at December 31, 2010, 1,361 million at December 31, 2009, 1,048 million at November 30, 2008, 1,056 million at November 30, 2007 and 1,074 million at December 31, 2008.



(7)
These amounts exclude the current portion of long-term borrowings and include junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts. 
  45 





Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
  Introduction. 
  Morgan Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global financial services
firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of
products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley” and the
“Company” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.    A summary of the activities of each of the Company’s business segments is as follows:   
Institutional Securities provides capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions,
restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment
activities.    Global Wealth Management
Group, which includes the Company’s 51% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC (“MSSB”), provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and
institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services
and engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities.   
Asset Management provides a broad array of investment strategies that span the risk/return spectrum across geographies, asset
classes and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across the institutional and intermediary channels as well as high net worth clients.   
See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s discontinued operations. 
  The results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may
continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets,
including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
“Dodd-Frank Act”)), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), and legal actions in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income, and commodity
prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to the Company’s unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor sentiment and
confidence in the financial markets; the performance of the Company’s acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including MSSB and with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”)); the
Company’s reputation; inflation, natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations and technological changes; or
a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the Company’s businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an
impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company’s business, see “Business—Competition” and
“Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, and “Other Matters” herein. 
  46 





Table of Contents
Executive Summary. 
  Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions,
except where noted and per share amounts).   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009(1)
 

 Net revenues:
  



 



 




 Institutional Securities
  
$
17,208
  
 
$
16,169
  
 
$
12,742
  

 Global Wealth Management Group
  
 
13,423
  
 
 
12,636
  
 
 
9,390
  

 Asset Management
  
 
1,887
  
 
 
2,685
  
 
 
1,294
  

 Intersegment Eliminations
  
 
(115
) 
 
 
(103
) 
 
 
(146
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net revenues
  
$
32,403
  
 
$
31,387
  
 
$
23,280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
4,645
  
 
$
5,702
  
 
$
1,406
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
535
  
 
 
999
  
 
 
60
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
4,110
  
 
$
4,703
  
 
$
1,346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley:
  



 



 




 Institutional Securities
  
$
3,461
  
 
$
3,766
  
 
$
1,499
  

 Global Wealth Management Group
  
 
665
  
 
 
519
  
 
 
283
  

 Asset Management
  
 
35
  
 
 
205
  
 
 
(391
) 

 Intersegment Eliminations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
4,161
  
 
$
4,478
  
 
$
1,383
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts applicable to Morgan Stanley:
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
4,161
  
 
$
4,478
  
 
$
1,383
  

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations applicable to Morgan Stanley(2)
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
225
  
 
 
(37
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
4,110
  
 
$
4,703
  
 
$
1,346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders
  
$
2,067
  
 
$
3,594
  
 
$
(907
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share:
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
1.28
  
 
$
2.49
  
 
$
(0.73
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations(2)
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.15
  
 
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share(3)
  
$
1.25
  
 
$
2.64
  
 
$
(0.77
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share:
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
  
$
1.26
  
 
$
2.45
  
 
$
(0.73
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations(2)
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.18
  
 
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share(3)
  
$
1.23
  
 
$
2.63
  
 
$
(0.77
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Regional net revenues(4):
  



 



 




 Americas
  
$
22,331
  
 
$
21,477
  
 
$
18,798
  

 Europe, Middle East and Africa
  
 
6,761
  
 
 
5,590
  
 
 
2,486
  

 Asia
  
 
3,311
  
 
 
4,320
  
 
 
1,996
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
$
32,403
  
 
$
31,387
  
 
$
23,280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  47 





Table of Contents
Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per
share amounts)—(Continued).   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009(1)
 

 Average common equity (dollars in billions)(5):
  



 



 




 Institutional Securities
  
$
26.2
  
 
$
17.7
  
 
$
18.1
  

 Global Wealth Management Group
  
 
7.6
  
 
 
6.8
  
 
 
4.6
  

 Asset Management
  
 
2.2
  
 
 
2.1
  
 
 
2.2
  

 Parent capital
  
 
18.4
  
 
 
15.5
  
 
 
8.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total from continuing operations
  
 
54.4
  
 
 
42.1
  
 
 
33.0
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
0.3
  
 
 
1.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated average common equity
  
$
54.4
  
 
$
42.4
  
 
$
34.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Return on average common equity(5):
  



 



 




 Institutional Securities(5)
  
 
7
% 
 
 
19
% 
 
 
N/A
  

 Global Wealth Management Group
  
 
6
% 
 
 
7
% 
 
 
N/A
  

 Asset Management
  
 
N/M
  
 
 
8
% 
 
 
N/A
  

 Consolidated
  
 
4
% 
 
 
9
% 
 
 
N/M
  

 Book value per common share(6)
  
$
31.42
  
 
$
31.49
  
 
$
27.26
  

 Tangible common equity(7)
  
$
53,850
  
 
$
40,667
  
 
$
29,479
  

 Tangible book value per common share(8)
  
$
27.95
  
 
$
26.90
  
 
$
21.67
  

 Effective income tax rate provision from continuing operations(9)
  
 
23.2
% 
 
 
12.1
% 
 
 
(26.2
)% 

 Worldwide employees
  
 
61,899
  
 
 
62,542
  
 
 
60,494
  

 Average liquidity (dollars in billions)(10):
  



 



 




 Parent company liquidity
  
$
78
  
 
$
65
  
 
$
61
  

 Bank and other subsidiaries liquidity
  
 
99
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
93
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liquidity
  
$
177
  
 
$
159
  
 
$
154
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Capital ratios at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009(11):
  



 



 




 Total capital ratio
  
 
17.8
% 
 
 
16.0
% 
 
 
16.2
% 

 Tier 1 common capital ratio
  
 
13.0
% 
 
 
10.2
% 
 
 
8.1
% 

 Tier 1 capital ratio
  
 
16.6
% 
 
 
15.5
% 
 
 
15.2
% 

 Tier 1 leverage ratio
  
 
6.8
% 
 
 
6.6
% 
 
 
5.8
% 

 Consolidated assets under management or supervision (dollars in billions)(12):
  



 



 




 Asset Management(13)
  
$
287
  
 
$
272
  
 
$
259
  

 Global Wealth Management Group
  
 
494
  
 
 
477
  
 
 
379
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
781
  
 
$
749
  
 
$
638
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Institutional Securities:
  



 



 




 Pre-tax profit margin(14)
  
 
27
% 
 
 
27
% 
 
 
10
% 

 Global Wealth Management Group:
  



 



 




 Global representatives(15)
  
 
17,649
  
 
 
18,440
  
 
 
18,284
  

 Annualized revenues per global representative (dollars in thousands)(15)(16)
  
$
744
  
 
$
686
  
 
$
664
  

 Assets by client segment (dollars in billions):
  



 



 




 $10 million or more
  
$
510
  
 
$
522
  
 
$
453
  

 $1 million to $10 million
  
 
709
  
 
 
707
  
 
 
637
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal $1 million or more
  
 
1,219
  
 
 
1,229
  
 
 
1,090
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 $100,000 to $1 million
  
 
388
  
 
 
399
  
 
 
418
  

 Less than $100,000
  
 
42
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
52
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total client assets
  
$
1,649
  
 
$
1,669
  
 
$
1,560
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  48 





Table of Contents
Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per
share amounts)—(Continued).   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009(1)
 

 Fee-based assets as a percentage of total client assets
  
 
30
% 
 
 
28
% 
 
 
24
% 

 Client assets per global representative(15)(17)
  
$
93
  
 
$
91
  
 
$
85
  

 Global retail net new assets (dollars in billions)
  
$
35.8
  
 
$
22.9
  
 
$
(15.3
) 

 Global fee-based asset flows (dollars in billions)
  
$
42.5
  
 
$
32.7
  
 
$
13.4
  

 Bank deposits (dollars in billions)(18)
  
$
111
  
 
$
113
  
 
$
112
  

 Global retail locations
  
 
765
  
 
 
851
  
 
 
930
  

 Pre-tax profit margin(14)
  
 
10
% 
 
 
9
% 
 
 
6
% 

 Asset Management:
  



 



 




 Assets under management or supervision (dollars in billions)
  
$
287
  
 
$
272
  
 
$
259
  

 Pre-tax profit margin(14)
  
 
13
% 
 
 
27
% 
 
 
N/M
  
  
N/M—Not Meaningful.  N/A—Not
Applicable. Information is not comparable. 


(1)
Information includes MSSB effective from May 31, 2009 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). 


(2)
See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for information on discontinued operations. 


(3)
For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”), see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 


(4)
Regional net revenues include the impact of the fluctuation in the Company’s credit spreads and other credit factors (“Debt-Related Credit Spreads”) on
certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, (“Borrowings”) that are accounted for at fair value. 


(5)
Average common equity is a non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principle (“GAAP”) financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the
Company and investors to assess operating performance. The computation of average common equity for each business segment is determined using the Company’s Required Capital framework (“Required Capital Framework”), an internal capital
adequacy measure (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Required Capital” herein). The Required Capital Framework will evolve over time to respond to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in
modeling techniques. The Company continues to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein for further
information on risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards, known as “Basel III,” which were proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) in December 2009). The calculation of return on
average common equity uses income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of average common equity. For 2011, the negative adjustment related to the MUFG stock conversion (see “Executive
Summary–Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein) of $1,726 million was included in the calculation of the return on average common equity. Excluding this negative adjustment, the return on average common equity for 2011 would
have been 12% for the Institutional Securities business segment; 8% for the Global Wealth Management Group business segment; and 1% for the Asset Management business segment. See “Liquidity and Capital Resource—Required Capital”
herein for more information on the calculation of the average common equity by business segment. The effective tax rates used in the computation of business segment return on average common equity were determined on a separate entity basis.
Excluding the effects of the aggregate discrete tax benefit for 2011, the return on average common equity for the Institutional Securities business segment would have been 5%, (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items” herein).



(6)
Book value per common share equals common shareholders’ equity of $60,541 million at December 31, 2011, $47,614 million at December 31, 2010 and $37,091
million at December 31, 2009 divided by common shares outstanding of 1,927 million at December 31, 2011, 1,512 million at December 31, 2010 and 1,361 million at December 31, 2009. Book value per common share in
2011 was reduced by approximately $2.61 per share as a result of the MUFG stock conversion (see “Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein). Book value per common share in 2010 included a benefit of approximately $1.40 per share
due to the issuance of 116 million shares of common stock in 2010 corresponding to the mandatory redemption of the junior subordinated debentures underlying $5.6 billion of equity units (see “Other Matters—Redemption of CIC Equity
Units and Issuance of Common Stock” herein). 


(7)
Tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy.
For a discussion of tangible common equity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—The Balance Sheet” herein. 


(8)
Tangible book value per common share is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess
capital adequacy. Tangible book value per common share equals tangible common equity divided by period-end common shares outstanding. 


(9)
For a discussion of the effective income tax rate, see “Executive Summary—Significant Items” herein. 


(10)
For a discussion of average liquidity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Trading Management—Global Liquidity Reserve” herein.



(11)
 On December 30, 2011, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) formalized regulatory definitions for
Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common capital ratio. The Company’s conformance to the Federal Reserve’s definition under the 
  49 





Table of Contents


 
 
final rule reduced its Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common ratio by approximately $4.2 billion and 132 basis points, respectively, at December 31, 2011. The Company’s Total capital
ratio, Tier 1 common capital ratio and Tier 1 capital ratio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 have also been adjusted based on revised guidance from the Federal Reserve about the Company’s capital treatment for over-the-counter
(“OTC”) derivative collateral. For a discussion of Total capital ratio, Tier 1 common capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and Tier 1 leverage ratio, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.



(12)
Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management business segments.



(13)
Amounts exclude the Asset Management business segment’s proportionate share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.



(14)
Pre-tax profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess operating
performance. Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues. 


(15)
As the business finalizes the integration of its legacy Morgan Stanley and Smith Barney channels in 2012, it is harmonizing what were previously different job
descriptions for various licensed roles involved in serving the Company’s clients. This adjustment will be reflected in the prospective reporting of global representative headcount as role definition differences are eliminated in the combined
sales organization. Amounts represent global representative headcount and productivity metrics reflecting this adjustment. 


(16)
Annualized net revenues per global representative for 2011, 2010 and 2009 equals Global Wealth Management Group’s net revenues divided by the quarterly weighted
average global representative headcount for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 


(17)
Client assets per global representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end global representative headcount. 


(18)
Approximately $56 billion, $55 billion and $54 billion of the bank deposit balances at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, are held at
Company-affiliated depositories with the remainder held at Citigroup, Inc. (“Citi”) affiliated depositories. These deposit balances are held at certain of the Company’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”)
insured depository institutions for the benefit of the Company’s clients through their accounts. For additional information regarding the Company’s deposits, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements and “Liquidity and
Capital Resources—Funding Management—Deposits” herein.    Global Market and Economic Conditions.    During 2011, global market and economic conditions were negatively impacted by concerns about the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, the U.S. federal debt ceiling and slower economic growth. Global equity
markets were volatile in 2011 as investors reacted to slowing global economic growth and the deepening sovereign debt crisis in the European region.   
In the U.S., the Dow Jones Industrial Index rose 5.5%; however, most of the other major equity market indices ended 2011 lower compared with the beginning
of the year, primarily due to investors’ anxiety about the continued European sovereign debt crisis, a U.S. economy facing the prospect of a double-dip recession and signs of slowing economies in emerging markets. Despite the slowing growth in
foreign economies and strains in global financial markets, U.S. economic activity expanded moderately in 2011. Conditions in the labor market improved modestly as the unemployment rate decreased to 8.5% at December 31, 2011 from 9.4% at
December 31, 2010. However, certain sectors of the residential real estate market and investments in commercial real estate projects remained challenged in 2011. Growth in consumer spending accelerated in the second half of the year. Inflation
rose during the first half of 2011 and moderated during the second half of 2011, primarily reflecting lower prices for certain commodities and imported goods. Concerns about weakening crude oil demand due to slowing economic recovery contributed to
a drop in prices of oil and other commodities in the second half of 2011. The U.S. federal debt ceiling, the need for deficit reductions, unbalanced budgets and underfunded public pension liabilities remained critical focus items at the federal,
state and local levels of government during 2011. The Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) of the Federal Reserve kept key interest rates at historically low levels, and at December 31, 2011, the federal funds target rate was
between zero and 0.25%, and the discount rate was 0.75%. In an effort to lower long-term interest rates and to support economic growth, in September 2011 the FOMC began to purchase $400 billion of U.S. Treasury securities with maturities between six
and 30 years and to sell an equal amount of Treasury securities with maturities of three years or less. In January 2012, the FOMC announced that key interest rates will likely remain at historically low levels at least through late 2014. 
  In Europe, real gross domestic product growth remained moderate in 2011.
Major European equity market indices ended 2011 lower compared with the beginning of the year, primarily due to adverse economic developments, including investors’ growing concerns about the sovereign debt crisis, especially in Greece,

  50 





Table of Contents

Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain (the “European Peripherals”), and the sovereign debt exposures in the European banking system. The euro area unemployment rate increased to 10.4% at
December 31, 2011 from 10.0% a year ago. At December 31, 2011, the European Central Bank’s (“ECB”) benchmark interest rate was 1.00%, and the Bank of England’s (“BOE”) benchmark interest rate was 0.50%, both
of which were unchanged from a year ago. In 2011, the BOE increased the size of its quantitative easing program by £75 billion to £275 billion in order to inject further monetary stimulus into the economy in the United Kingdom
(“U.K.”). To stabilize the European banking system during the sovereign debt crisis, the ECB initiated a number of actions during the fourth quarter of 2011. The ECB made longer-term loans available to banks in exchange for posting of
adequate collateral in October and December of 2011 for maturities up to 13 months, ensuring that European banks have unlimited financing into 2013. Starting in November 2011, the ECB also bought €40 billion in European bank bonds backed by
mortgages and other assets, known as covered bonds, a key source of funds for banks. On October 27, 2011, leaders of 17 European Union countries announced a financial relief plan that involves a write-off of certain sovereign debt by European
banks and other measures aimed to resolve the European sovereign debt crisis. In December 2011, European leaders agreed to sign an inter-government treaty that would require them to enforce stricter fiscal and financial discipline in their future
budgets. In January and February 2012, rating agencies downgraded the credit ratings for several euro-zone countries.   
In Asia, major stock markets closed out 2011 sharply lower compared with the beginning of the year, primarily due to investors’ concerns over the
sovereign debt crisis in Europe and slowing economic growth in Asia. Japan’s economy continued to recover from the adverse impact of the earthquake and tsunami in March of 2011. In 2011, the Bank of Japan enhanced monetary easing by increasing
the size of the asset purchase program to 50 trillion yen from 40 trillion yen. Japan’s benchmark interest rate remained within a range of zero to 0.1% during 2011. China’s gross domestic product growth moderated during 2011 as import and
export growth slowed sharply after domestic tightening measures and global economic turmoil impacted consumption. To combat rising inflation, the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”) raised benchmark interest rates by 0.25% three times
in 2011. In December 2011, in order to stimulate the Chinese economy, the PBOC cut its bank reserve requirement by 0.5%.   
Overview of 2011 Financial Results.   
Consolidated Results.    The Company recorded net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $4,110 million on net revenues of
$32,403 million in 2011, compared with $4,703 million of net income applicable to Morgan Stanley and net revenues of $31,387 million in 2010.   
Net revenues in 2011 included positive revenue of $3,681 million, or $1.34 per diluted share, due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s
Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value, compared with negative revenues of $873 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were
accounted for at fair value. Results for 2011 included the settlement with MBIA Insurance Corporation (“MBIA”), which resulted in a pre-tax loss of approximately $1.7 billion. In addition, the Company recorded a pre-tax loss of
approximately $783 million arising from its 40% stake in Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”). See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax Benefits,” “Executive
Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture,” and “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers,” herein. Non-interest expenses increased 5% to $26,289 million in 2011. Non-compensation
expenses increased 7% in 2011.    Diluted EPS and diluted EPS from
continuing operations were $1.23 and $1.26 in 2011, respectively, compared with $2.63 and $2.45, respectively, in 2010. The earnings per share calculation for 2011 included a negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion, or $0.98 per diluted
share (calculated using 1.79 billion diluted average shares outstanding under the if-converted method), related to the conversion of MUFG’s outstanding Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series B
Preferred Stock”) into the Company’s common stock. See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein. 
  51 





Table of Contents
The Company’s effective tax rates from continuing operations were 23.2% and 12.1% for 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The effective tax rates included aggregate discrete tax benefits of $484 million and $997 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Excluding these discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rates from continuing operations in 2011 and
2010 would have been 31.1% and 28.1%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily reflective of the geographic mix of earnings. For further discussion of the current and prior year discrete tax benefits, see “Executive
Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax Benefits” herein.    Institutional Securities.    Income from continuing operations before income taxes was $4,585 million in 2011 compared with $4,372 million in 2010. Net revenues were $17,208
million in 2011 compared with $16,169 million in 2010. Investment banking revenues for 2011 decreased 2% to $4,228 million from 2010, reflecting lower revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by higher
advisory revenues. Investment banking revenues were also impacted by the contribution in 2010 of the majority of the Company’s Japanese investment banking business as a result of a transaction with MUFG (see “Other
Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). Equity sales and trading revenues increased 40% to $6,770 million in 2011. The increase was due to higher revenues, primarily reflecting higher levels of client activity, higher
average client balances and positive revenue of $619 million due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value compared with negative revenue of approximately $121
million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credits Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues increased 27% to $7,507 million in
2011 compared with $5,900 million in 2010. Results in 2011 included positive revenue of $3,062 million due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value, compared
with negative revenues of $703 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value. Fixed income revenues were negatively impacted by losses of
$1,838 million from Monoline Insurers (“Monolines”) compared with losses of $865 million in 2010. The results in 2011 included the $1.7 billion settlement with MBIA (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline
Insurers,” herein). The results in 2011 also included approximately $600 million primarily related to the release of credit valuation adjustments upon the restructuring of certain derivatives transactions which decreased its exposure to the
European Peripherals. Other sales and trading net losses of $1.3 billion primarily reflected losses associated with corporate lending activity and costs related to liquidity held. Principal transactions net investment gains of $239 million were
recognized in 2011 compared with net investment gains of $809 million in 2010. Other losses of $207 million were recognized in 2011 compared with other revenues of $766 million in 2010. In 2011, pre-tax losses of approximately $783 million were from
the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS, partially offset by gains from the Company’s retirement of its debt. Non-interest expenses increased 7% and Compensation and benefits expenses increased 3% in 2011. Non-compensation expenses increased 12%
in 2011, which included a 44% increase in Other expenses. The increase in Other expenses was primarily due to the initial costs of $130 million associated with Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited, and a charge of $59 million due to the
bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities on the consolidated balance sheets of “U.K. Banking Groups,” at December 31, 2011 as defined under the bank levy legislation enacted by the U.K. government in July 2011 (see
“Executive Summary—Significant Items—U.K. Matters” herein for further information).    Global Wealth Management Group.    Income from continuing operations before income taxes was $1,276 million in 2011 compared with $1,156 million in 2010. Net revenues were
$13,423 million in 2011 compared with $12,636 million in 2010. Investment banking revenues decreased 9% to $750 million in 2011, primarily due to lower equity and fixed income underwriting activities. Principal transactions trading revenues
decreased 14% to $1,122 million in 2011, primarily due to losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and lower revenues from corporate equity and fixed income securities, government securities and
structured notes, partially offset by higher revenues from municipal securities, derivatives and unit trusts. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 8% to $6,884 million in 2011, primarily

  52 





Table of Contents

due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues as a result of the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program. Net interest increased 32% to
$1,483 million in 2011, primarily resulting from an increase in Interest income due to interest on the securities available for sale portfolio and mortgages and the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program. Other
revenues increased 22% to $410 million in 2011, primarily due to gains on sales of securities available for sale. Non-interest expenses increased 6% to $12,147 million in 2011. 
  Asset Management.    Income from continuing
operations before income taxes was $253 million in 2011 compared with $718 million in 2010. Net revenues were $1,887 million in 2011 compared with $2,685 million in 2010. Principal transactions net investment gains were $330 million in 2011 compared
with gains of $996 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 was primarily related to lower net gains in the Company’s Merchant Banking and Traditional Asset Management businesses, including certain investments associated with the Company’s
employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, as well as lower net investment gains associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 3% to
$1,582 million in 2011, primarily reflecting lower performance fees and fund management and administration fees, primarily due to the absence of FrontPoint Partners LLC (“FrontPoint”) for ten months of the current year. Non-interest
expenses decreased 17% to $1,634 million in 2011, primarily reflecting a decrease in compensation expenses.    Significant Items.    Morgan Stanley Debt.    Net revenues reflected positive revenues of $3,681 million in 2011 and negative revenues of $873 million and $5.5 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively,
related to the impact of changes in the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value.   
In addition, in 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded gains (losses) of approximately $155 million, $(27) million and $491 million, respectively,
related to the Company’s retirement of its debt. The results in 2009 also reflected the amortization of the value of the de-designated hedges related to the Company’s retirement of its debt. 
  Monoline Insurers.    The results for 2011
included losses of $1,838 million related to the Company’s counterparty credit exposures to Monolines, principally MBIA, compared with losses of $865 million in 2010 and $232 million in 2009. 
  On December 13, 2011, the Company announced a comprehensive settlement
with MBIA. The settlement terminated outstanding credit default swap (“CDS”) protection purchased from MBIA on commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) and resolved pending litigation between the two parties for
consideration of a net cash payment to the Company. The pre-tax loss on the settlement, which was recorded as a reduction to Fixed income and commodities revenue, approximated $1.7 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2011. The
settlement has the effect of significantly reducing risk-weighted assets under the Basel Committee’s proposed Basel III framework, thereby increasing the pro forma Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III by approximately 75 basis points by the end
of 2012. The pro forma Tier 1 common capital ratio under Basel III is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. The Basel III estimates are
preliminary and may change based on guidelines for implementation to be issued by the Federal Reserve. Under current Basel I standards, the Tier 1 common ratio was reduced by approximately 20 basis points. 
  MUFG Stock Conversion.    On June 30, 2011,
MUFG’s outstanding Series B Preferred Stock with a face value of $7.8 billion (carrying value $8.1 billion) and a 10% dividend was converted into 385,464,097 shares of the Company’s common stock, including approximately 75 million
shares resulting from the adjustment to the conversion ratio pursuant to the transaction agreement. As a result of the adjustment to the conversion ratio, the Company incurred a one-time, non-cash negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion in
its calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share during 2011. As a result of the conversion, MUFG did not receive the previously declared dividend that otherwise would have been payable on July 15, 2011 with respect to the Series B
Preferred Stock. 
  53 





Table of Contents
Japanese Securities Joint Venture.    During 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded
losses of $783 million and $62 million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements). See “Other
Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.    Corporate Lending.    The Company recorded the following amounts primarily associated with loans and lending commitments carried at fair value within the Institutional
Securities business segment (see “Business Segments—Institutional Securities—Sales and Trading Revenues” herein):   
















 
  
2011(1)
 
 
2010(1)
 
 
2009(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Gains (losses) on loans and lending commitments
  
$
(0.8
) 
 
$
0.3
  
 
$
4.0
  

 Gains (losses) on hedges
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
(0.7
) 
 
 
(3.2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gains (losses)
  
$
(0.7
) 
 
$
(0.4
) 
 
$
0.8
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Amounts include realized and unrealized gains (losses).   
European Peripheral Countries.    On December 22, 2011, the Company entered into agreements to restructure certain
derivative transactions which decreased its exposure to the European Peripherals. As a result, the Company’s results included approximately $600 million related primarily to the release of credit valuation adjustments associated with the
transactions, reported within Principal transactions—Trading in the consolidated statement of income (see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk—Country Risk
Exposure,” herein).   Real Estate
Investments.    The Company recorded gains (losses) in the following business segments related to real estate investments. These amounts exclude investments associated with certain deferred compensation and employee
co-investment plans.   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Institutional Securities:
  



  



 




 Continuing operations(1)
  
$
0.6
  
  
$
0.2
  
 
$
(0.8
) 

 Discontinued operations(2)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1.2
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Institutional Securities
  
 
0.6
  
  
 
(1.0
) 
 
 
(0.8
) 

 Asset Management:
  



  



 




 Continuing operations(3)
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
0.5
  
 
 
(0.5
) 

 Discontinued operations(2)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(0.6
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Asset Management
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
0.5
  
 
 
(1.1
) 

 Amounts applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
0.5
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
0.6
  
  
$
(1.0
) 
 
$
(1.9
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Amounts for 2011 include a tax benefit related to Revel Entertainment Group, LLC (“Revel”) (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax
Benefits” herein), and net realized and unrealized gains (losses) from the Company’s limited partnership investments in real estate funds. 


(2)
On February 17, 2011, the Company completed the sale of Revel. The results of Revel are reported as discontinued operations within the Institutional Securities
business segment for all periods presented through the date of sale. In the Asset Management business segment, the amount related to the disposition of Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership (“Crescent”), which was disposed of
in the fourth quarter of 2009. See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements. 


(3)
Gains (losses) related to net realized and unrealized gains (losses) from real estate limited partnership investments in the Company’s Real Estate Investing
business and are reflected in Principal transactions—Investments in the consolidated statements of income. Amounts also include net gains associated with the Company’s investment in Infrastructure funds. 
  54 





Table of Contents
See “Other Matters—Real Estate” herein for further information. 
  Income Tax Benefits.    In 2011, the Company
recognized a discrete tax benefit of $447 million from the remeasurement of a deferred tax asset and the reversal of a related valuation allowance. The deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were recognized in income from discontinued operations
in 2010 in connection with the recognition of a $1.2 billion loss due to writedowns and related costs following the Company’s commitment to a plan to dispose of Revel. The Company recorded the valuation allowance because the Company did not
believe it was more likely than not that it would have sufficient future net capital gain to realize the benefit of the expected capital loss to be recognized upon the disposal of Revel. During the quarter ended March 31, 2011, the disposal of
Revel was restructured as a tax-free like kind exchange and the disposal was completed. The restructured transaction changed the character of the future taxable loss to ordinary. The Company reversed the valuation allowance because the Company
believes it is more likely than not that it will have sufficient future ordinary taxable income to recognize the recorded deferred tax asset. In accordance with the applicable accounting literature, this reversal of a previously established
valuation allowance due to a change in circumstances was recognized in income from continuing operations during the quarter ended March 31, 2011. Additionally, in 2011 the Company recognized a discrete tax benefit of $137 million related to the
reversal of U.S. deferred tax liabilities associated with prior-years’ undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were determined to be indefinitely reinvested abroad, and a discrete tax cost of $100 million related to the
remeasurement of Japan deferred tax assets as a result of a decrease in the local statutory income tax rates starting in 2012.   
In 2010, the Company recognized discrete tax benefits of $382 million related to the reversal of U.S. deferred tax liabilities associated with
prior-years’ undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were determined to be indefinitely reinvested abroad, $345 million associated with the remeasurement of net unrecognized tax benefits and related interest based on new
information regarding the status of federal and state examinations, and $277 million associated with the planned repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated.    Huaxin Securities Joint Venture.    In June 2011, the Company and Huaxin Securities
Co., Ltd. (“Huaxin Securities”) (also known as China Fortune Securities Co., Ltd.) jointly announced the operational commencement of their securities joint venture in China. During 2011, the Company recorded initial costs of $130
million related to the formation of this joint venture in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income.    The joint venture, Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited, is registered and principally located in Shanghai. Huaxin Securities holds a two-thirds interest in the joint venture while the
Company owns a one-third interest. The establishment of the joint venture allows the Company to further build on its established onshore businesses in China. The joint venture’s businesses include underwriting and sponsorship of
shares in the domestic China market (including A shares and foreign investment shares) as well as underwriting, sponsorship and principal trading of bonds (including government and corporate bonds). 
  OIS Fair Value Measurement.    In the fourth
quarter of 2010, the Company began using the overnight indexed swap (“OIS”) curve as an input to value its collateralized interest rate derivative contracts. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recognized a
pre-tax loss of approximately $108 million in Principal transactions—Trading upon application of the OIS curve to certain additional fixed income products within the Institutional Securities business segment. Previously, the Company
discounted these contracts based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). At December 31, 2011, substantially all of the Company’s collateralized derivative contracts were valued using the OIS curve. The Company
recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $176 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 in Principal transactions—Trading upon the initial application of the OIS curve. 
  U.K. Matters.    In July 2011, the U.K. Government
enacted legislation imposing a bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities at December 31, 2011 on the consolidated balance sheets of banks and banking groups operating in the U.K. The Company has accrued a levy charge of $59 million for the
year ended December 31, 2011. The levy is not deductible for U.K. corporation tax purposes. During 2010, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $272 million in Compensation and benefits expense relating to the U.K.
government’s payroll tax on discretionary above-base compensation. 
  55 





Table of Contents
Goodwill and Intangibles.    Impairment charges related to goodwill and
intangible assets were $7 million, $201 million and $16 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The impairment charges for 2010 included $193 million related to FrontPoint. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. 
  Mortgage-Related Trading.    The Company recorded
mortgage-related trading gains (losses) primarily related to commercial mortgage-backed securities, U.S. subprime mortgage proprietary trading exposures and non-subprime residential mortgages of $1.2 billion and $(0.6) billion in 2010 and 2009,
respectively.    Settlement with
DFS.    On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of its business segment Discover Financial Services (“DFS”) to its shareholders. On February 11, 2010, DFS paid the Company $775 million in
complete satisfaction of its obligations to the Company regarding the sharing of proceeds from a lawsuit against Visa and MasterCard. The payment was recorded as a gain in discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of income for 2010.
   Gain on Sale of Noncontrolling
Interest.    In connection with the transaction between the Company and MUFG to form a joint venture in Japan, the Company recorded an after-tax gain of $731 million from the sale of a noncontrolling interest in its Japanese
institutional securities business. This gain was recorded in Paid-in capital in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition at December 31, 2010 and changes in total equity for 2010. See “Other Matters—Japanese
Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.   
Gain on Sale of Retail Asset Management.    On June 1, 2010, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of its
retail asset management business (“Retail Asset Management”), including Van Kampen Investments, Inc. (“Van Kampen”), to Invesco Ltd. (“Invesco”). The Company received $800 million in cash and approximately
30.9 million shares of Invesco stock upon sale, resulting in a cumulative after-tax gain of $710 million, of which $28 million and $570 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The remaining gain, representing tax basis benefits,
was recorded in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. The results of Retail Asset Management are reported as discontinued operations within the Asset Management business segment for all periods presented through the date of sale. The Company
recorded the 30.9 million shares as securities available for sale and subsequently sold the shares in the fourth quarter of 2010, resulting in a realized gain of approximately $102 million reported within Other revenues in the consolidated
statement of income for 2010.    Sale of Stake in
CICC.    In December 2010, the Company completed the sale of its 34.3% stake in China International Capital Corporation (“CICC”) for a pre-tax gain of approximately $668 million, which is included within Other
revenues in the consolidated statements of income for 2010. See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.    Sale of Bankruptcy Claims.    In 2009, the Company recorded a gain of $319 million related to the sale of undivided participating interests in a portion of the Company’s
claims against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements).   
MSCI.    In May 2009, the Company divested all of its remaining ownership interest in MSCI Inc. (“MSCI”).
The gain on sale, net of taxes, was approximately $279 million related to the secondary offerings for 2009. The results of MSCI are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale. The results of MSCI were
formerly included in the continuing operations of the Institutional Securities business segment.    Business Segments.    Substantially all of the Company’s operating revenues and operating expenses can be directly attributed to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business
segment, generally in proportion to its respective revenues or other relevant measures. 
  56 





Table of Contents
As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company
includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company’s consolidated results. Intersegment Eliminations also reflect the effect of fees paid by the Institutional Securities business segment to
the Global Wealth Management Group business segment related to the bank deposit program. The Company did not recognize any Intersegment Elimination gains or losses in 2011. Losses from continuing operations before income taxes recorded in
Intersegment Eliminations were $15 million and $11 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.    Net Revenues.    Principal Transactions—Trading.    Principal transactions—Trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which
the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s positions, as well as proprietary trading activities for its own account. Principal transactions—Trading revenues includes the realized gains and losses from sales of cash
instruments and derivative settlements, unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s positions related to market-making activities, and gains and losses related to investments associated with certain employee
deferred compensation plans. In many markets, the realized and unrealized gains and losses from the purchase and sale transactions will include any spreads between bids and offers. Certain fees received on loans carried at fair value and dividends
from equity securities are also recorded in this line item since they relate to market-making positions. Commissions received for purchasing and selling listed equity securities and options are recorded separately in the Commissions and fees line
item. Other cash and derivative instruments typically do not have fees associated with them and fees for related services would be recorded in Commissions and fees. 
  Principal Transactions—Investments.    The
Company’s investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly
over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. In some cases, such investments are required or are a necessary part of offering other products. The revenues recorded are
the result of realized gains and losses from sales and unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s holdings as well as from investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Typically,
there are no fee revenues from these investments. The sales restrictions on the investments relate primarily to redemption and withdrawal restrictions on investments in real estate funds, hedge funds, and private equity funds, which include
investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Restrictions on interests in exchanges and clearinghouses generally include a requirement to hold those interests
for the period of time that the Company is clearing trades on that exchange or clearinghouse. Additionally, there are certain principal investments related to assets held by consolidated real estate funds, which are primarily related to holders of
noncontrolling interests.    Commissions and
Fees.    Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities, services related to sales and trading activities, and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and
options.    Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.    Asset management, distribution and administration fees include fees associated with the management and supervision of assets, account services and administration, performance-based fees relating to certain funds,
separately managed accounts, shareholder servicing, and the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds.    Asset management, distribution and administration fees in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment also include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and
fees for investment management. Mutual fund distribution fees in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes
in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision. 
  57 





Table of Contents
Asset management fees in the Asset Management business segment arise from investment management services the
Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles.
Performance-based fees in the Asset Management business segment are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally
earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.   
Net Interest.    Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities,
including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, securities available for sale, securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, loans,
deposits, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, long-term borrowings, trading strategies, customer activity in the Company’s prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates.
Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell (“reverse repurchase agreements”) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (“repurchase agreements”) and Securities borrowed and Securities loaned transactions may
be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the
repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.   
Market Making.   
As a market maker, the Company stands ready to buy, sell or otherwise transact with customers under a variety of market conditions and provide firm or
indicative prices in response to customer requests. The Company’s liquidity obligations can be explicit and obligatory in some cases, and in others, customers expect the Company to be willing to transact with them. In order to most effectively
fulfill its market-making function, the Company engages in activities, across all of its trading businesses, that include, but are not limited to, (i) taking positions in anticipation of, and in response to customer demand to buy or sell,
and—depending on the liquidity of the relevant market and the size of the position—holding those positions for a period of time; (ii) managing and assuming basis risk (risk associated with imperfect hedging) between customized
customer risks and the standardized products available in the market to hedge those risks; (iii) building, maintaining, and re-balancing inventory, through trades with other market participants, and engaging in accumulation activities to
accommodate anticipated customer demand; (iv) trading in the market to remain current on pricing and trends; and (v) engaging in other activities to provide efficiency and liquidity for markets. Interest income and expense are also
impacted by market-making activities as debt securities held by the Company earn interest and securities are loaned, borrowed, sold with agreement to repurchase and purchased with agreement to resell. 
  58 





Table of Contents
INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES    INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 




 Investment banking
  
$
4,228
  
 
$
4,295
  
 
$
4,455
  

 Principal transactions:
  



 



 




 Trading
  
 
11,299
  
 
 
8,154
  
 
 
6,592
  

 Investments
  
 
239
  
 
 
809
  
 
 
(864
) 

 Commissions and fees
  
 
2,610
  
 
 
2,274
  
 
 
2,152
  

 Asset management, distribution and administration fees
  
 
124
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
98
  

 Other
  
 
(207
) 
 
 
766
  
 
 
415
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest revenues
  
 
18,293
  
 
 
16,402
  
 
 
12,848
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest income
  
 
5,740
  
 
 
5,910
  
 
 
6,373
  

 Interest expense
  
 
6,825
  
 
 
6,143
  
 
 
6,479
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
 
(1,085
) 
 
 
(233
) 
 
 
(106
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
 
17,208
  
 
 
16,169
  
 
 
12,742
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Compensation and benefits
  
 
7,204
  
 
 
6,971
  
 
 
7,123
  

 Non-compensation expenses
  
 
5,419
  
 
 
4,826
  
 
 
4,380
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest expenses
  
 
12,623
  
 
 
11,797
  
 
 
11,503
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
4,585
  
 
 
4,372
  
 
 
1,239
  

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
880
  
 
 
316
  
 
 
(256
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
3,705
  
 
 
4,056
  
 
 
1,495
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations:
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(199
) 
 
 
(1,210
) 
 
 
246
  

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
(107
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
185
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gain (losses) on discontinued operations
  
 
(92
) 
 
 
(1,220
) 
 
 
61
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
3,613
  
 
 
2,836
  
 
 
1,556
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
244
  
 
 
290
  
 
 
12
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
3,369
  
 
$
2,546
  
 
$
1,544
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts applicable to Morgan Stanley:
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
  
$
3,461
  
 
$
3,766
  
 
$
1,499
  

 Net gain (losses) from discontinued operations
  
 
(92
) 
 
 
(1,220
) 
 
 
45
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
3,369
  
 
$
2,546
  
 
$
1,544
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Noncontrolling Interests.
   Noncontrolling interests primarily relate to the
Japanese securities joint venture with MUFG (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein).   
Discontinued Operations.    On October 24, 2011, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement to sell
Saxon, a provider of servicing and subservicing of residential mortgage loans, to Ocwen Financial Corporation. The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2012. The results of Saxon are reported as discontinued operations within
the Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented. 
  59 





Table of Contents
On February 17, 2011, the Company completed the sale of Revel. The sale price approximated the carrying
value of Revel at the time of disposal and, accordingly, the Company did not recognize any pre-tax gain or loss on the sale. The results of Revel are reported as discontinued operations within the Institutional Securities business segment for all
periods presented through the date of sale. Results for 2010 included losses of approximately $1.2 billion in connection with writedowns and related costs of such disposition. For further information on Revel, see “Executive
Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax Benefits” herein and Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.   
In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed the disposal of CityMortgage Bank (“CMB”), a Moscow-based mortgage bank. The results of CMB
are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale within the Institutional Securities business segment.   
In May 2009, the Company divested all of its remaining ownership in MSCI. The results of MSCI are reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented through the date of sale within the Institutional Securities business segment.    Supplemental Financial Information.   Investment Banking.   Investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans, net of syndication expenses. 
  Investment banking revenues were as follows:
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Advisory revenues
  
$
1,737
  
  
$
1,470
  
  
$
1,488
  

 Underwriting revenues:
  



  



  




 Equity underwriting revenues
  
 
1,132
  
  
 
1,454
  
  
 
1,695
  

 Fixed income underwriting revenues
  
 
1,359
  
  
 
1,371
  
  
 
1,272
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total underwriting revenues
  
 
2,491
  
  
 
2,825
  
  
 
2,967
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investment banking revenues
  
$
4,228
  
  
$
4,295
  
  
$
4,455
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following table presents the
Company’s volumes of announced and completed mergers and acquisitions, equity and equity-related offerings, and fixed income offerings:   
















 
  
2011(1)
 
  
2010(1)
 
  
2009(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Announced mergers and acquisitions(2)
  
$
447
  
  
$
534
  
  
$
588
  

 Completed mergers and acquisitions(2)
  
 
640
  
  
 
354
  
  
 
643
  

 Equity and equity-related offerings(3)
  
 
47
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
67
  

 Fixed income offerings(4)
  
 
203
  
  
 
225
  
  
 
250
  
  


(1)
Source: Thomson Reuters, data at January 17-18, 2012. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in
a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings and fixed income offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. In
addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or change in the value of a transaction. 


(2)
Amounts include transactions of $100 million or more and exclude terminated transactions. 


(3)
Amounts include Rule 144A and public common stock offerings, convertible offerings and rights offerings. 


(4)
Amounts include non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt. Amounts also include publicly
registered and Rule 144A issues. Amounts exclude leveraged loans and self-led issuances. 
  60 





Table of Contents
Sales and Trading. 
  Sales and trading revenues are composed of Principal
transactions—Trading revenues; Commissions and fees; Asset management, distribution and administration fees; and Net interest revenues (expenses). See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information about what is
included in sales and trading revenues. In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views these net revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall
review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated
commissions and fees, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company’s positions, and other related expenses. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information related to
gains (losses) on derivative instruments.    Sales and trading
revenues were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010(1)
 
 
2009(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Principal transactions—Trading
  
$
11,299
  
 
$
8,154
  
 
$
6,592
  

 Commissions and fees
  
 
2,610
  
 
 
2,274
  
 
 
2,152
  

 Asset management, distribution and administration fees
  
 
124
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
98
  

 Net interest
  
 
(1,085
) 
 
 
(233
) 
 
 
(106
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total sales and trading revenues
  
$
12,948
  
 
$
10,299
  
 
$
8,736
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
All prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.    Sales and Trading Reorganization.    Effective March 31, 2011, the
Institutional Securities business segment’s “fixed income” business has been renamed the “fixed income and commodities” business. The interest rate, credit and currency business has been renamed the “fixed income”
business. These name changes did not affect current or previously reported results for these businesses.    Sales and trading revenues were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010(1)
 
 
2009(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Equity
  
$
6,770
  
 
$
4,840
  
 
$
3,690
  

 Fixed income and commodities
  
 
7,507
  
 
 
5,900
  
 
 
4,872
  

 Other(2)
  
 
(1,329
) 
 
 
(441
) 
 
 
174
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total sales and trading revenues
  
$
12,948
  
 
$
10,299
  
 
$
8,736
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. 


(2)
Other sales and trading net revenues include net gains (losses) from certain loans and lending commitments and related hedges associated with the Company’s lending
activities. Other sales and trading net revenues also include gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt and net losses associated with costs related to the amount of liquidity held (“negative carry”).
   2011 Compared with 2010. 
  Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues in 2011
decreased 2% from 2010, reflecting lower revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by higher advisory revenues. Overall, underwriting revenues of $2,491 million decreased 12% from 2010, reflecting lower levels
of market activity. Investment banking revenues were also impacted by the contribution in 2010 of the majority of the Company’s Japanese investment banking business as a result of a transaction with MUFG (see
“Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). Equity underwriting revenues decreased 22% to $1,132 million in 2011. Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased 1% to $1,359 million in 2011. Advisory revenues from merger,
acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,737 million in 2011, an increase of 18% from 2010, reflecting higher levels of completed activity. 
  61 





Table of Contents
Sales and Trading Revenues.    Total sales and
trading revenues increased to $12,948 million in 2011 from $10,299 million in 2010, reflecting higher equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues, partially offset by higher losses in other sales and trading revenues.
   Equity.    Equity sales and trading
revenues increased 40% to $6,770 million in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher revenues in the derivatives business, the Company’s electronic trading platform and prime brokerage. The increase in the derivatives business and the
Company’s electronic trading platform primarily reflected higher levels of client activity. The increase in prime brokerage net revenues was primarily due to higher average client balances. The results in equity sales and trading revenues also
included positive revenue in 2011 of $619 million due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value compared with negative revenue of $121 million in 2010 due to
the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value.   
In 2011, equity sales and trading revenues also reflected unrealized losses of $38 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative
contracts attributable to the widening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads and other credit factors compared with unrealized gains of $20 million in 2010 due to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads and
other credit factors. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of $182 million in 2011 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads and other credit
factors compared with unrealized gains of $31 million in 2010. The unrealized gains and losses on credit default swap spreads and other credit factors do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging instruments. 
  Fixed Income and Commodities.    Fixed income and
commodities sales and trading revenues increased 27% to $7,507 million in 2011 from $5,900 million in 2010. Results in 2011 included positive revenue of $3,062 million due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit
Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value, compared with negative revenues of $703 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair
value. Fixed income revenues, excluding the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings, in 2011 decreased 30% over 2010. Results in 2011 were negatively impacted by losses of $1,838 million from Monolines compared with losses of $865
million in 2010. On December 13, 2011, the Company announced a comprehensive settlement with MBIA. The loss on the settlement was approximately $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011 (see “Executive Summary—Significant
Items—Monoline Insurers” herein for further information). The results in 2011 also reflected lower revenues in credit products due to the stressed credit environment and lower revenues in currency products, partially offset by higher
revenues in interest rate products due to higher levels of market volatility and client activity and approximately $600 million primarily related to the release of credit valuation adjustments upon the restructuring of certain derivative
transactions which decreased its exposure to the European Peripherals (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—European Peripheral Countries” herein for further information). Commodity revenues, excluding the Company’s
Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings, decreased 18% in 2011, primarily due to lower levels of client activity, including structured transactions. Results in the fourth quarter of 2011 included a loss of approximately $108 million upon
application of the OIS curve to certain fixed income products. Results in 2010 included a gain of approximately $123 million related to a change in the fair value measurement methodology to use the OIS curve as an input to value substantially all
collateralized interest rate derivative contracts (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” herein and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  In 2011, fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues reflected
net unrealized gains of $1,625 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads and other credit factors compared with unrealized gains
of $603 million in 2010. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of $1,750 million in 2011 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads and
other credit factors compared with gains of $287 million in 2010. The unrealized gains and losses on credit default swap spreads and other credit factors do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging instruments. 
  62 





Table of Contents
Other.    In addition to the equity and fixed income and commodities sales and
trading revenues discussed above, sales and trading revenues included other trading revenues, consisting of certain activities associated with the Company’s lending activities, gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s
long-term debt and negative carry. The fair value measurement of loans and lending commitments takes into account fee income that is considered an attribute of the contract. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending
on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or if the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. During 2011, the Company, in accordance with its risk management practices, accounted for certain new loans and
lending commitments as held for investment. Mark-to-market valuations were not recorded for these loans and lending commitments, but they were evaluated for collectability and an allowance for credit losses was recorded. Other sales and trading also
includes costs related to negative carry.    In 2011, other sales
and trading revenues reflected a net loss of $1,329 million compared with a net loss of $441 million in 2010. Results in 2011 included net losses of $620 million associated with loans and lending commitments (mark-to-market valuations and realized
losses of $688 million and gains on related hedges of $68 million). The results in 2011 also included higher net losses related to negative carry. Results in 2010 also included a gain of approximately $53 million related to the OIS curve fair value
methodology referred to above (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  Net Interest.    Net interest expense increased to
$1,085 million in 2011 from $233 million in 2010 primarily due to higher interest expenses that resulted from increased interest rates associated with the Company’s long term borrowings and stock lending transactions. 
  Principal
Transactions—Investments.    See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information on what is included in Principal transactions—Investments. 
  Principal transaction net investment gains of $239 million were recognized in
2011 compared with net investment gains of $809 million in 2010. Results in both periods reflected gains in principal investments in real estate funds and investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and
co-investment plans. The results for 2010 also reflected a gain of $313 million on a principal investment held by a consolidated investment partnership, which was sold in 2010. The portion of the gain related to third-party investors amounted to
$183 million and was recorded in the net income applicable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statement of income.   
Other.    Other losses of $207 million were recognized in 2011 compared with other revenues of $766
million in 2010. The results in 2011 primarily included pre-tax losses of approximately $783 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture”
herein), partially offset by gains from the Company’s retirement of its long-term debt. Results in 2010 included a pre-tax gain of $668 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in CICC, partially offset by pre-tax losses of
approximately $62 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.    Non-interest Expenses.    Non-interest expenses increased 7% in 2011. The increase was due to higher compensation expenses and higher
non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 3% in 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2010 included a non-recurring charge of approximately $269 million related to the U.K. government’s payroll tax on
discretionary above-base compensation in 2010. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 14% in 2011, primarily due to higher levels of business activity. Information processing and communications expense increased 13% in 2011, primarily due
to ongoing investments in technology. Professional services expenses decreased 9% in 2011, primarily due to lower legal fees and consulting expenses. Other expenses increased 44% in 2011, primarily due to the initial costs of $130 million associated
with Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited and a charge of $59 million due to the bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities on the consolidated balance sheets of “U.K. Banking Groups” at

  63 





Table of Contents

December 31, 2011 as defined under the bank levy legislation enacted by the U.K. government in July 2011 (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—U.K. Matters” herein
for further information). Other expenses in 2010 included $102.7 million related to the Assurance of Discontinuance between the Company and the Office of the Attorney General for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (“Massachusetts OAG”) to
resolve the Massachusetts OAG’s investigation of the Company’s financing, purchase and securitization of certain subprime residential mortgages.   
2010 Compared with 2009.   
Investment Banking.    Investment banking revenues decreased 4% in 2010 from 2009, reflecting lower
revenues from equity underwriting and lower advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions, partially offset by higher revenues from fixed income underwriting. Investment banking revenues were also impacted by the contribution
in 2010 of the majority of the Company’s Japanese investment banking business as a result of a transaction with MUFG (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). Overall, underwriting
revenues of $2,825 million decreased 5% from 2009. Equity underwriting revenues decreased 14% to $1,454 million, primarily due to lower market volume. Fixed income underwriting revenues increased 8% to $1,371 million, primarily due to increased
high-yield issuance volumes and higher loan syndication fees. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,470 million, a decrease of 1% from 2009.    Sales and Trading Revenues.    Total sales and trading revenues
increased 18% in 2010 from 2009, reflecting higher equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues, partially offset by losses in other sales and trading. 
  Equity.    Equity sales and trading revenues
increased 31% to $4,840 million in 2010 from $3,690 million in 2009. Equity sales and trading revenues reflected negative revenues of approximately $121 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit
Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value compared with negative revenues of approximately $1,738 million in 2009. Despite solid customer flows, a challenging trading environment resulted in lower revenues in the cash and
derivatives businesses in 2010. Results in 2010 reflected higher revenues in prime brokerage due to higher client balances compared with 2009.   
In 2010, equity sales and trading revenues also reflected unrealized gains of approximately $20 million related to changes in the fair value of net
derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads compared with unrealized gains of approximately $198 million in 2009. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of $31 million in 2010 related
to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads compared with unrealized losses of approximately $154 million in 2009 from the tightening of the Company’s
credit default swap spreads. The unrealized gains and losses on credit default swap spreads and other credit factors do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging instruments.    Fixed Income and Commodities.    Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased 21% to $5,900
million in 2010 from $4,872 million in 2009. Results in 2010 included negative revenues of approximately $703 million due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair
value compared with negative revenues of approximately $3,321 million in 2009. Fixed income product revenues decreased 38% in 2010, reflecting lower trading results across most businesses. Results for 2010 primarily reflected solid customer flows in
interest rate, credit and currency products, which were partly offset by a challenging trading environment. Fixed income product net revenues in 2010 were also negatively impacted by losses of $865 million from Monolines compared with losses of $232
million in 2009. Results in interest rate, credit and currency products also included a gain of approximately $123 million related to a change in the fair value measurement methodology to use the OIS curve as an input to value substantially all
collateralized interest rate derivative contracts (see “Executive Summary —Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” herein and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Commodity net revenues decreased

  64 





Table of Contents

27% in 2010, primarily due to low levels of client activity and market volatility. Results in 2009 included a gain of approximately $319 million related to the sale of undivided participating
interests in a portion of the Company’s claims against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  In 2010, fixed income sales and trading revenues reflected net unrealized
gains of $603 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads compared with unrealized gains of approximately $3,462 million in 2009.
The Company also recorded unrealized gains of $287 million in 2010 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads compared with unrealized losses of
approximately $1,938 million in 2009 from the tightening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized gains and losses on credit default swap spreads and other credit factors do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging
instruments.    Other.    In 2010, other
sales and trading net revenues reflected a net loss of $441 million compared with net gains of $174 million in 2009. Results in 2010 primarily included net losses of approximately $342 million (mark-to-market valuations and realized gains of
approximately $327 million offset by losses on related hedges of approximately $669 million) associated with loans and lending commitments and the costs related to negative carry. Results in 2009 included net gains of approximately $804 million
(mark-to-market valuations and realized gains of approximately $4,042 million, partially offset by losses on related hedges of approximately $3,238 million) associated with loans and lending commitments. Results in 2009 also included losses of $362
million, reflecting the improvement in the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on certain debt related to China Investment Corporation, Ltd.’s (“CIC”) investment in the Company. Results in 2010 also included a gain of
approximately $53 million related to the OIS curve fair value methodology referred to above (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  Principal
Transactions—Investments.    Principal transaction net investment gains of $809 million were recognized in 2010 compared with net investment losses of $864 million in 2009. The results for
2010 reflected a gain of $313 million on a principal investment held by a consolidated investment partnership, which was sold in 2010. The results in 2010 also reflected gains on principal investments in real estate funds and investments associated
with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans compared with losses on such investments in 2009.   
Other.    Other revenues increased 85% in 2010, primarily reflecting a pre-tax gain of $668 million from the sale of the
Company’s investment in CICC, partially offset by pre-tax losses of approximately $62 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS. Results in 2009 included gains of approximately $465 million from the Company’s repurchase of
its debt in the open market.    Non-interest
Expenses.    Non-interest expenses increased 3% in 2010, primarily due to higher non-compensation expenses, partially offset by lower compensation expense. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased
2% in 2010, primarily due to lower net revenues, excluding the impact of negative revenues related to the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2010 included a non-recurring charge of approximately $269
million related to the U.K. government’s payroll tax on discretionary above-base compensation. Non-compensation expenses increased 10% in 2010. Brokerage and clearing expense increased 18% in 2010, primarily due to higher levels of business
activity. Information processing and communications expense increased 11% in 2010, primarily due to ongoing investments in technology. Marketing and business development expense increased 33% in 2010, primarily due to higher levels of business
activity. Other expenses increased 17% in 2010, primarily related to higher provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings, including $102.7 million related to the Assurance of Discontinuance between the Company and the Massachusetts OAG,
partially offset by insurance recoveries reflected in 2010. 
  65 





Table of Contents
GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP 
  INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Revenues:
  



  



  




 Investment banking
  
$
750
  
  
$
827
  
  
$
596
  

 Principal transactions:
  



  



  




 Trading
  
 
1,122
  
  
 
1,306
  
  
 
1,208
  

 Investments
  
 
4
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
3
  

 Commissions and fees
  
 
2,770
  
  
 
2,676
  
  
 
2,090
  

 Asset management, distribution and administration fees
  
 
6,884
  
  
 
6,349
  
  
 
4,583
  

 Other
  
 
410
  
  
 
337
  
  
 
249
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-interest revenues
  
 
11,940
  
  
 
11,514
  
  
 
8,729
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interest income
  
 
1,869
  
  
 
1,587
  
  
 
1,114
  

 Interest expense
  
 
386
  
  
 
465
  
  
 
453
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
 
1,483
  
  
 
1,122
  
  
 
661
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
 
13,423
  
  
 
12,636
  
  
 
9,390
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Compensation and benefits
  
 
8,351
  
  
 
7,843
  
  
 
6,114
  

 Non-compensation expenses
  
 
3,796
  
  
 
3,637
  
  
 
2,717
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-interest expenses
  
 
12,147
  
  
 
11,480
  
  
 
8,831
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
1,276
  
  
 
1,156
  
  
 
559
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
465
  
  
 
336
  
  
 
178
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
811
  
  
 
820
  
  
 
381
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
811
  
  
 
820
  
  
 
381
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
146
  
  
 
301
  
  
 
98
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
665
  
  
$
519
  
  
$
283
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Net
Revenues.    Global Wealth Management Group’s net revenues are composed of Transactional, Asset management, Net interest and Other revenues. Transactional revenues include Investment banking,
Principal transactions—Trading, and Commissions and fees. Asset management revenues include Asset management, distribution and administration fees and fees related to the bank deposit program. Net interest revenues include net interest revenues
related to the bank deposit program, interest on securities available for sale and all other net interest revenues. Other revenues include revenues from available for sale securities, customer account services fees, other miscellaneous revenues and
revenues from Principal transactions—Investments.   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Revenues:
  



  



  




 Transactional
  
$
4,642
  
  
$
4,809
  
  
$
3,894
  

 Asset management
  
 
6,884
  
  
 
6,349
  
  
 
4,583
  

 Net interest
  
 
1,483
  
  
 
1,122
  
  
 
661
  

 Other
  
 
414
  
  
 
356
  
  
 
252
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
$
13,423
  
  
$
12,636
  
  
$
9,390
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
MSSB.    On May 31, 2009, MSSB was formed (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements). The Company owns 51% of MSSB, which is consolidated. As a result, the operating results for MSSB are included in 
  66 





Table of Contents

the Global Wealth Management Group business segment since May 31, 2009. Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests of $146 million, $301 million and $98 million in 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively, primarily represents Citi’s interest in MSSB since May 31, 2009.    2011 Compared with 2010.    Transactional.    Investment Banking.    Global Wealth Management Group investment banking includes revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial
public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Investment banking revenues decreased 9% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to lower equity and fixed income underwriting activities. 
  Principal
Transactions—Trading.    Principal transactions—Trading includes revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the
Company’s inventory positions which are held primarily to facilitate customer transactions and gains and losses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Principal transactions—Trading revenues decreased 14% in 2011
from 2010, primarily due to losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, lower revenues from corporate equity and fixed income securities, government securities and structured notes, partially offset by
higher revenues from municipal securities, derivatives and unit trusts.    Commissions and Fees.    Commissions and fees revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures,
insurance products and options. Commissions and fees revenues increased 4% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher client activity.   
Asset Management.   
Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.    See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein
for information on what is included within Asset management, distribution and administration fees.    Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 8% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues as a result of the change in
classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program. From June 2009 until April 1, 2010, revenues in the bank deposit program were primarily included in Asset management, distribution and administration fees.
Beginning on April 1, 2010, revenues in the bank deposit program held at the Company’s U.S. depository institutions were recorded as Interest income due to renegotiations of the revenue sharing agreement as part of the Global Wealth
Management Group business segment’s retail banking strategy. The Global Wealth Management Group business segment continues to earn referral fees for deposits placed with Citi affiliated depository institutions, and these fees continue to be
recorded in Asset management, distribution and administration fees until the legacy Smith Barney deposits are migrated to the Company’s U.S. depository institutions. The referral fees for deposits were $255 million and $382 million in 2011 and
2010, respectively.    Balances in the bank deposit program
decreased to $110.6 billion at December 31, 2011 from $113.3 billion at December 31, 2010.    Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $496 billion and represented 30% of total client assets at December 31, 2011, compared with $470 billion and 28% at December 31, 2010,
respectively. Total client asset balances decreased to $1,649 billion at December 31, 2011 from $1,669 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to the impact of weakened market conditions, partially offset by an increase in net new
assets. Net new assets for 2011 were an inflow of $35.8 billion, compared with an inflow of $22.9 billion in 2010. Client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million decreased to $1,219 billion at December 31, 2011 from
$1,229 billion at December 31, 2010. Global fee-based asset net inflows increased to $42.5 billion at December 31, 2011 from $32.7 billion at December 31, 2010. 
  67 





Table of Contents
Net Interest. 
  Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of
total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions.   
Net interest increased 32% in 2011 from 2010, primarily resulting from an increase in Interest income due to interest on the securities available for sale
portfolio and mortgages and the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program noted above.   
Other.   
Principal Transactions—Investments.    Principal transaction net investment gains were $4 million in 2011 compared
with net investment gains of $19 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 primarily reflected losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans compared with such investments in the prior year. 
  Other.    Other revenues were $410 million
in 2011, an increase of 22% from 2010, primarily due to gains on sales of securities available for sale.    Non-interest Expenses.    Non-interest expenses increased 6% in 2011 from 2010. Compensation and benefits expense increased 6% in 2011 from 2010,
primarily reflecting higher net revenues and support services related compensation, partially offset by lower expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Non-compensation expenses increased 4% in 2011 from 2010. In 2011,
marketing and business development expense increased 15% from 2010, primarily due to higher costs associated with conferences and seminars. Professional services expense increased 14% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to increased technology
consulting costs and legal fees. Information processing and communications expense increased 10% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher telecommunications and data storage costs. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 4% in 2011 from 2010,
primarily due to lower infrastructure costs and continued branch consolidation.    2010 Compared with 2009.    Transactional.    Investment Banking.    Investment banking revenues increased 39% in 2010, primarily benefiting from a full year of MSSB revenues and higher closed-end fund activity.
   Principal
Transactions—Trading.    Principal transactions—Trading revenues increased 8% in 2010, primarily benefiting from a full year of MSSB revenues, net gains related to investments associated with certain employee
deferred compensation plans and gains on certain investments.   
Commissions and fees.    Commissions and fees revenues increased 28% in 2010, primarily benefiting from a full year of
MSSB revenues and higher client activity.    Asset Management.
   Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.    Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 39% in 2010, primarily benefiting from a full year of MSSB revenues and improved market conditions. The referral fees for deposits placed with Citi
depository institutions were $382 million in 2010 and $660 million in 2009.    Balances in the bank deposit program increased to $113.3 billion at December 31, 2010 from $112.5 billion at December 31, 2009. 
  68 





Table of Contents
Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $470 billion and represented 28% of total client assets at
December 31, 2010 compared with $379 billion and 24% at December 31, 2009, respectively. Total client asset balances increased to $1,669 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1,560 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily due to
improved market conditions and an increase in net new assets. Net new assets for 2010 were $22.9 billion. Client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million increased to $1,229 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1,090
billion at December 31, 2009. Global fee-based asset flows increased to $32.7 billion at December 31, 2010 from $13.4 billion at December 31, 2009. 
  Net Interest. 
  Net interest increased 70% in 2010, primarily resulting from an increase in
Interest income due to a full year of MSSB net interest, the securities available for sale portfolio (see “Other Matters—Securities Available for Sale” herein) and the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit
program noted above, partially offset by increased funding costs.   
Other.   
Principal Transactions—Investments.    Principal transaction net investment gains were $19 million in 2010 compared
with $3 million in 2009. The increase primarily reflected gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans compared with such investments in the prior-year period. 
  Other.    Other revenues were $337 million
in 2010, an increase of 35% from $249 million in 2009. Other revenues in 2010 primarily benefited from a full year of MSSB revenues and increases in proxy and other fee services. 
  Non-interest
Expenses.    Non-interest expenses increased 30% in 2010, primarily due to higher costs related to a full year of MSSB operating expenses and the amortization of MSSB’s intangible assets.
Compensation and benefits expense increased 28% in 2010, primarily due to a full year of MSSB operating expenses. Non-compensation expenses increased 34% in 2010. In 2010, brokerage, clearing and exchange fees expense increased 38%, information
processing and communications expense increased 41%, and other expenses increased 51%, primarily due to a full year of MSSB operating expenses. In 2010, professional services expense increased 43%, primarily due to a full year of MSSB operating
expenses and increased technology consulting costs related to the MSSB integration. 
  69 





Table of Contents
ASSET MANAGEMENT 
  INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 




 Investment banking
  
$
13
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
10
  

 Principal transactions:
  



 



 




 Trading
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
(49
) 
 
 
(68
) 

 Investments
  
 
330
  
 
 
996
  
 
 
(173
) 

 Asset management, distribution and administration fees
  
 
1,582
  
 
 
1,630
  
 
 
1,562
  

 Other
  
 
25
  
 
 
164
  
 
 
46
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest revenues
  
 
1,928
  
 
 
2,761
  
 
 
1,377
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest income
  
 
10
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
17
  

 Interest expense
  
 
51
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
100
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
 
(41
) 
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
(83
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
 
1,887
  
 
 
2,685
  
 
 
1,294
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Compensation and benefits
  
 
848
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
1,090
  

 Non-compensation expenses
  
 
786
  
 
 
859
  
 
 
861
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest expenses
  
 
1,634
  
 
 
1,967
  
 
 
1,951
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
253
  
 
 
718
  
 
 
(657
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
73
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
(216
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
180
  
 
 
613
  
 
 
(441
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations:
  



 



 




 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
24
  
 
 
999
  
 
 
(373
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
335
  
 
 
(277
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
41
  
 
 
664
  
 
 
(96
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
221
  
 
 
1,277
  
 
 
(537
) 

 Net income (loss) applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
145
  
 
 
408
  
 
 
(50
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
76
  
 
$
869
  
 
$
(487
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts applicable to Morgan Stanley:
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
35
  
 
$
205
  
 
$
(391
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
41
  
 
 
664
  
 
 
(96
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
76
  
 
$
869
  
 
$
(487
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
FrontPoint.    On March 1, 2011, the Company and the principals of FrontPoint completed a
transaction whereby FrontPoint senior management and portfolio managers own a majority equity stake in FrontPoint and the Company retained a minority stake. FrontPoint has replaced the Company’s affiliates as the investment advisor and general
partner of the FrontPoint funds. The investment in FrontPoint is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Prior to March 1, 2011, the Company consolidated FrontPoint. The Company recorded losses of approximately $27 million related
to the writedown of the minority stake investment in FrontPoint in 2011. The losses were included in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income.   
Noncontrolling Interests.    Noncontrolling interests are primarily related to the consolidation of
certain real estate funds sponsored by the Company. The decrease in noncontrolling interests in 2011 is related to lower principal investment gains associated with these consolidated funds. The increase in noncontrolling interests in 2010 is related
to principal investment gains of $444 million associated with these consolidated funds. 
  70 





Table of Contents
Discontinued Operations.    On June 1, 2010, the
Company completed the sale of Retail Asset Management, including Van Kampen, to Invesco. The Company recorded a cumulative after-tax gain of $710 million, of which $28 million and $570 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The
remaining gain, representing tax basis benefits, was recorded in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. The results of Retail Asset Management are reported as discontinued operations within the Asset Management business segment for all periods
presented. See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Gain on Sale of Retail Asset Management” for further information.   
In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company classified a real estate property management company as held for sale within the Asset Management business
segment. The transaction closed during the first quarter of 2012. The results of operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.   
In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed a disposal of a real estate property within the Asset Management business segment. The results of
operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.    Segment Reorganization.    Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2011, the Asset Management business segment was reorganized into three
businesses: Traditional Asset Management, Real Estate Investing and Merchant Banking. Traditional Asset Management includes Long-only, which is comprised of Equity and Fixed Income, Liquidity and the Alternative Investment Products businesses, which
include a range of alternative investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds, and funds of real estate funds. Real Estate Investing was previously reported as part of Merchant Banking. Merchant Banking includes
the Private Equity and Infrastructure business and hedge fund stake investments. The Company’s equity investment in FrontPoint, subsequent to the restructuring of that business, is included in Merchant Banking. The results of the
FrontPoint business for all periods prior to the restructuring are also included in Merchant Banking.    Statistical Data.    The Asset Management business segment’s period-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:   
























 
  
AtDecember 31,
 
  
Average For
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010(1)
 
  
2011
 
  
2010(1)
 
  
2009(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Assets under management or supervision by asset class:
  



  



  



  



  




 Traditional Asset Management:
  



  



  



  



  




 Equity
  
$
104
  
  
$
110
  
  
$
112
  
  
$
97
  
  
$
79
  

 Fixed income
  
 
57
  
  
 
61
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
56
  

 Liquidity
  
 
74
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
66
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
64
  

 Alternatives
  
 
25
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
17
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Traditional Asset Management
  
 
260
  
  
 
242
  
  
 
256
  
  
 
227
  
  
 
216
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Real Estate Investing
  
 
18
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
21
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Merchant Banking:
  



  



  



  



  




 Private Equity
  
 
9
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
8
  

 FrontPoint(2)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Merchant Banking
  
 
9
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
15
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets under management or supervision
  
$
287
  
  
$
272
  
  
$
283
  
  
$
258
  
  
$
252
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Share of minority stake assets(2)(3)
  
$
6
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
6
  
  


(1)
All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. 
  71 





Table of Contents


(2)
On March 1, 2011, the Company and the principals of FrontPoint completed a transaction whereby FrontPoint senior management and portfolio managers own a majority
equity stake in FrontPoint and the Company retains a minority stake. At December 31, 2011, the assets under management attributed to FrontPoint are represented within the share of minority stake assets. 


(3)
Amounts represent the Asset Management business segment’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.
   Activity in the Asset Management business
segment’s assets under management or supervision during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010(1)
 
 
2009(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
272
  
 
$
259
  
 
$
284
  

 Net flows by asset class:
  



 



 




 Traditional Asset Management:
  



 



 




 Equity
  
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8
) 

 Fixed income(2)
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6
) 

 Liquidity
  
 
20
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(22
) 

 Alternatives
  
 
8
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Traditional Asset Management
  
 
26
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(37
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Real Estate Investing
  
 
1
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Merchant Banking:
  



 



 




 FrontPoint(3)
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Merchant Banking
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net flows
  
 
26
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(41
) 

 Net market appreciation (depreciation)
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
19
  
 
 
16
  

 Decrease due to FrontPoint transaction
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net increase (decrease)
  
 
15
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
(25
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of period
  
$
287
  
 
$
272
  
 
$
259
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. 


(2)
Fixed income outflows in 2011 includes $1.3 billion due to the revised treatment of assets under management previously reported as a net flow. 


(3)
The amount in 2011 includes two months of net flows related to FrontPoint, whereas 2010 and 2009 includes twelve months of net flows related to FrontPoint.
   2011 Compared with 2010. 
  Investment
Banking.    Asset Management generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate and merchant banking fund. Investment banking revenues decreased in 2011
from 2010, primarily reflecting lower revenues from infrastructure products.    Principal Transactions—Trading.    In 2011, the Company recognized losses of $22 million compared with losses of $49 million in 2010. Trading
results in 2011 primarily reflected losses related to certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans and certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Trading results
in 2010 primarily included losses from hedges on certain investments and long-term debt. Trading results in 2010 also included $25 million related to contributions to money market funds.    Principal Transactions—Investments.    Real estate and private
equity investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in
light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. 
  72 





Table of Contents
The Company recorded principal transactions net investment gains of $330 million in 2011 compared with gains
of $996 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 was primarily related to lower net gains in the Company’s Merchant Banking and Traditional Asset Management businesses, including certain investments associated with the Company’s employee
deferred compensation and co-investment plans, as well as lower net investment gains associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company.
  Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.    Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues generated from the management and supervision of assets, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, and
separately managed accounts and fees relating to the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds. Asset management fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual
arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation
earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.    Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 3% in 2011. The decrease in 2011 primarily reflected lower
performance fees and lower fund management and administration fees, primarily due to the absence of FrontPoint for ten months of the current year, partially offset by an increase in revenue associated with higher average assets under
management.    The Company’s assets under management increased
$15 billion from $272 billion at December 31, 2010 to $287 billion at December 31, 2011 reflecting net customer inflows. The Company recorded net customer inflows of $25.8 billion in 2011 compared with net outflows of $5.7 billion in 2010.
The increase in flows for 2011 primarily reflected the sweep of MSSB client cash balances of approximately $18.5 billion into Morgan Stanley managed liquidity funds and inflows of $7.9 billion into alternatives funds, partially offset by outflows of
$5.5 billion in fixed income products.   
Other.    Other revenues were $25 million in 2011 as compared with $164 million in 2010. The
results in 2011 included revenues associated with the Company’s minority stake investments in Lansdowne Partners (“Lansdowne”), a London-based investment manager, and Avenue Capital Group (“Avenue”), a New York-based
investment manager, partially offset by a $27 million writedown in the Company’s minority stake investment in FrontPoint as noted above. The results in 2010 primarily reflected revenues associated with these minority stakes and a pre-tax
gain of approximately $96 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in Invesco (see Notes 5 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements). The results in 2010 also reflected gains associated with the reduction of a lending facility
to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company and impairment charges of $126 million related to FrontPoint.    Non-interest Expenses.    Non-interest expenses decreased 17% in 2011 from 2010, primarily reflecting a decrease in compensation expenses.
Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 23% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to the absence of FrontPoint for ten months of the current year and decreases associated with lower net revenues. Non-compensation expenses decreased 8% in 2011
compared with the prior year, as the prior year included intangible asset impairment charges of $67 million related to certain FrontPoint management contracts.   
2010 Compared with 2009.   
Investment Banking.    Investment banking revenues doubled in 2010 from 2009, primarily reflecting
higher revenues from real estate and infrastructure products.   
Principal Transactions—Trading.    In 2010, the Company recognized Principal transactions
trading losses of $49 million compared with losses of $68 million in 2009. Trading results in 2010 and 2009 included losses from hedges on certain investments and long-term debt. Trading results in 2010 also included $25 million related

  73 





Table of Contents

to contributions to money market funds. Trading results in 2009 also included mark-to-market losses related to a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company, partially
offset by gains of $164 million related to structured investment vehicle positions that were previously held on the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition.    Principal Transactions—Investments.    The Company recorded
principal transactions net investment gains of $996 million in 2010 compared with losses of $173 million in 2009. The results in 2010 included a gain of $444 million associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company and
net investment gains in the Merchant Banking and Traditional Asset Management businesses, including certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The results in 2009 primarily related
to net investment losses associated with the Company’s real estate investments and losses related to certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, partially offset by net
investment gains associated with the Company’s Merchant Banking business.    Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.    Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 4% in 2010 compared with
2009, primarily reflecting higher fund management and administration fees, partially offset by lower performance fees. The higher fund management and administration fees reflected an increase in average assets under management. The Company’s
assets under management increased $13 billion from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, reflecting market appreciation, partially offset by net customer outflows, primarily in the Company’s money market funds. The Company recorded
net customer outflows of $5.7 billion in 2010 compared with net outflows of $41.1 billion in 2009.    Other.    Other revenues increased $118 million in 2010 compared with 2009. The results in 2010 included a pre-tax gain of approximately $96 million
from the sale of the Company’s investment in Invesco, as mentioned above. The increase in 2010 also reflected gains associated with the reduction of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company and higher revenues
associated with the Company’s minority stake investments in Avenue and Lansdowne. These increases were partially offset by impairment charges of $126 million related to FrontPoint.    Non-interest Expenses.    Non-interest expenses increased 1% in 2010
compared with 2009. The results in 2010 primarily reflected an increase in Compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by a decrease in Non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 2% in 2010 due to certain
international tax equalization payments and principal investment gains in the current year related to employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Non-compensation expenses for 2010 included intangible asset impairment charges of $67
million related to FrontPoint investment management contracts. 
  74 





Table of Contents
Accounting Developments. 
  Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements.
   In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the
“FASB”) issued accounting guidance that removes the requirement to consider whether sufficient collateral is held when determining whether to account for repurchase agreements and other agreements that both entitle and
obligate the transferor to repurchase or redeem financial assets before their maturity as sales or as secured financings. The guidance is effective for the Company prospectively for transactions beginning on January 1, 2012. The Company
does not believe the adoption of this accounting guidance will have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.   
Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. 
  In May 2011, the FASB issued an accounting update that clarifies existing
fair value measurement guidance and changes certain principles or requirements for measuring fair value or disclosing information about fair value measurements. This update results in common principles and requirements for measuring fair value and
for disclosing information about fair value measurement in accordance with U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The guidance is effective for the Company prospectively beginning on January 1, 2012. The
Company does not believe the adoption of this accounting guidance will have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.   
Goodwill Impairment Test.   
In September 2011, the FASB issued accounting guidance that simplifies how entities test goodwill for impairment. This guidance allows entities an option
to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under that option, an entity no longer would be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless
the entity determines, based on that qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. This guidance is effective for the Company prospectively beginning on January 1, 2012. The
Company does not believe the adoption of this accounting guidance will have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
  75 





Table of Contents
Other Matters.    Real Estate.   
The Company acts as the general partner for various real estate funds and also invests in certain of these funds as a limited partner. The Company’s
real estate investments at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 are described below. Such amounts exclude investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. 
  At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the consolidated
statements of financial condition included amounts representing real estate investment assets of consolidated subsidiaries of approximately $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, including noncontrolling interests of approximately $1.6 billion
and $1.5 billion, respectively, for a net amount of $0.4 billion in both periods. This net presentation is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be the most useful measure for the Company and investors to use in assessing the
Company’s net exposure. In addition, the Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to real estate investments of $0.8 billion at December 31, 2011. 
  In addition to the Company’s real estate investments, the Company
engages in various real estate-related activities, including origination of loans secured by commercial and residential properties. The Company also securitizes and trades in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real
estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate. In connection with these activities, the Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be
required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. The Company continues to monitor its real estate-related activities in order to manage its exposures and potential
liability from these markets and businesses. See “Legal Proceedings—Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters” in Part I, Item 3. 
  See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Real Estate
Investments” herein and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.    Securities Available for Sale.    During 2010, the Company established a portfolio of debt securities in order to manage interest rate risk. The securities have been classified as securities available for sale in accordance with
accounting guidance for investments in debt and equity securities.   
See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on securities available for sale. 
  Japanese Securities Joint Venture. 
  On May 1, 2010, the Company and MUFG formed a joint venture in Japan of
their respective investment banking and securities businesses. MUFG and the Company have integrated their respective Japanese securities companies by forming two joint venture companies. MUFG contributed the investment banking, wholesale and retail
securities businesses conducted in Japan by Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co., Ltd. into MUMSS. The Company contributed the investment banking operations conducted in Japan by its subsidiary, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities, Co., Ltd. (“MSMS”),
formerly known as Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd., into MUMSS (MSMS, together with MUMSS, the “Joint Venture”). MSMS will continue its sales and trading and capital markets business conducted in Japan. Following the
respective contributions to the Joint Venture and a cash payment of 23 billion yen ($247 million) from MUFG to the Company, the Company owns a 40% economic interest in the Joint Venture, and MUFG owns a 60% economic interest in the Joint
Venture. The Company holds a 40% voting interest and MUFG holds a 60% voting interest in MUMSS, while the Company holds a 51% voting interest and MUFG holds a 49% voting interest in MSMS. The Company continues to consolidate MSMS in its consolidated
financial statements and, commencing on May 1, 2010, accounted for its interest in MUMSS 
  76 





Table of Contents

as an equity method investment within the Institutional Securities business segment. During 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded losses of $783 million and $62 million, respectively, within Other
revenues in the consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.    In order to enhance the risk management at MUMSS, during 2011, the Company entered into a transaction with MUMSS whereby the risk associated with the fixed income trading positions that previously caused
the majority of the aforementioned MUMSS losses in 2011 was transferred to MSMS (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for more information). In return for entering into the
transaction, the Company received total consideration of $659 million, which represented the estimated fair value of the fixed income trading positions transferred. 
  To the extent that losses incurred by MUMSS result in a requirement to
restore its capital, MUFG is solely responsible for providing this additional capital to a minimum level and the Company is not obligated to contribute additional capital to MUMSS. Because of the losses incurred by MUMSS, MUFG contributed
approximately $370 million and $259 million of capital to MUMSS on April 22, 2011 and November 24, 2011, respectively. The MUFG capital injection improved the capital base and restored the capital adequacy ratio of MUMSS in each
case. As a result of the capital injections, during 2011, the Company recorded increases of approximately $251 million in the carrying amount of the equity method investment in MUMSS, reflecting the Company’s 40% share of the increases in
the net asset value of MUMSS, and increases in the Company’s Paid-in capital of approximately $146 million (after-tax).   
To the extent that MUMSS is required to increase its capital level due to factors other than losses, such as changes in regulatory requirements, both MUFG
and the Company are required to contribute the necessary capital based upon their economic interest as set forth above. In this context, the Company contributed $129 million and MUFG contributed $195 million of additional proportionate capital
investments on November 24, 2011 to meet an anticipated change in regulatory capital requirements of MUMSS.    At December 31, 2011, the Company performed an impairment review of its equity method investment in MUMSS in view of the deterioration in the financial performance of MUMSS and the aftermath of the
earthquake in Japan on March 11, 2011. The Company recorded no other-than-temporary impairment loss in 2011. Adverse market or economic events, as well as further deterioration of economic performance, could result in impairment charges of this
investment in future periods.    See Note 24 to the consolidated
financial statements and “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.   
Redemption of CIC Equity Units and Issuance of Common Stock. 
  In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units that included contracts to
purchase Company common stock to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC. The Company redeemed the junior subordinated debentures underlying the Equity Units in August 2010, and the redemption proceeds were subsequently used by the CIC subsidiary to settle
its obligation under the purchase contracts.    Dividend Income.
   Effective January 1, 2010, the Company reclassified
dividend income associated with trading and investing activities to Principal transactions—Trading or Principal transactions—Investments depending upon the business activity. Previously, these amounts were included in Interest and
dividends on the consolidated statements of income. These reclassifications were made in connection with the Company’s conversion to a financial holding company. Prior periods have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation.

  77 





Table of Contents
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. 
  Expense.    The Company recognizes the
compensation cost of an employee’s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee’s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets.    On June 1, 2010,
the defined benefit pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “U.S. Qualified Plan”) was amended to cease future benefit accruals after December 31, 2010. Any benefits earned by
participants under the U.S. Qualified Plan at December 31, 2010 were preserved and will be payable based on the U.S. Qualified Plan’s provisions. Net periodic pension expense for U.S. and non-U.S. plans was $72 million, $96 million and
$175 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    On
October 29, 2010, the Morgan Stanley Medical Plan was amended to change eligibility requirements for a firm-provided subsidy toward the cost of retiree medical coverage after December 31, 2010. Net periodic postretirement expense for the
Morgan Stanley Medical Plan was $12 million and $26 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively.    Contributions.    The Company made contributions of $57 million, $72 million and $321 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.    The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors, including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, the types of assets in
which the plans are invested, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company’s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit
and tax laws (for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or “ERISA”). At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, there were no minimum required ERISA
contributions for the U.S. Qualified Plan. No contributions were made to the U.S. Qualified Plan for 2011 and 2010. A $278 million contribution was funded to the U.S. Qualified Plan for 2009 based on the service cost earned by
the eligible employees plus a portion of the unfunded accumulated benefit obligation on a funding basis. Liabilities for benefits payable under certain postretirement and unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when
paid to the beneficiaries.    See Note 21 to the consolidated
financial statements for more information on the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans.    Regulatory Outlook.    On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. While certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, other portions will be effective only following extended
transition periods. Moreover, implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will be accomplished through numerous rulemakings by multiple governmental agencies, only a portion of which has been completed. It remains difficult to assess fully the impact that
the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the Company and on the financial services industry generally. In addition, various international developments, such as the adoption of risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards by the Basel Committee, known
as “Basel III,” will impact the Company in the coming years.    It is likely that 2012 and subsequent years will see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates,
although it remains difficult to predict which further reform initiatives will become law, how such reforms will be implemented or the exact impact they will have on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows for a particular future period. See also “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1. 
  78 





Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies. 
  The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies
(see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.   
Fair Value.    Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value.    A significant number of the Company’s financial instruments are carried at fair value. The Company makes estimates
regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include but are not limited to:   


 
•
 
 Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased; 
 


 
•
 
 Securities available for sale;   


 
•
 
 Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral; 
 


 
•
 
 Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes; 
 


 
•
 
 Certain Deposits;   


 
•
 
 Certain Securities sold under agreements to repurchase; 
 


 
•
 
 Certain Other secured financings; and   


 
•
 
 Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes. 
  Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.   
In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of
observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses observable prices in
active markets, and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be
reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many instruments. For
further information on the fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related valuation techniques, see Notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 
  Level 3 Assets and Liabilities.    The
Company’s Level 3 assets before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $32.5 billion and $34.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and
represented approximately 10% at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, of the assets measured at fair value (4% of total assets at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010). Level 3 liabilities before the impact of cash
collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $11.2 billion and $8.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and represented approximately 6% and 4%, respectively, of the
Company’s liabilities measured at fair value.   
Transfers In/Out of Level 3 During 2011.    During 2011, the Company reclassified approximately $1.8 billion of certain
Corporate and other debt, primarily corporate loans, from Level 3 to Level 2. The Company reclassified the corporate loans as external prices and/or spread inputs for these instruments became observable. 
  79 





Table of Contents
The Company also reclassified approximately $0.8 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to
Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to corporate loans and were generally due to a reduction in market price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to
be utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments.   
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis.    At December 31, 2011, certain of the
Company’s assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, primarily relating to loans, other investments, premises, equipment and software costs, and intangible assets. The Company incurs losses or gains for any adjustments of
these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.    For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use
of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.    For further information on assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, see Note 4 to the
consolidated financial statements.    Fair Value Control
Processes.    The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to ensure that the values used
for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently
applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. These control processes include reviews of the pricing model’s theoretical soundness and appropriateness by Company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks,
which include Finance, Market Risk Department and Credit Risk Management Department. These groups participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. Where a pricing model is used to determine
fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. 
  Consistent with market practice, the Company has individually negotiated
agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral (“margining”) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. Through this margining process, one party or each party to a derivative contract
provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. This sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the Company’s recorded fair value
for the relevant OTC derivative products. For certain OTC derivative products, the Company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the information and make it
accessible to subscribers. This information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these OTC derivative products. For more information regarding the Company’s risk management practices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A herein.    Goodwill and Intangible Assets.    Goodwill.    The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on July 1 and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company
tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. Goodwill no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition once it has been assigned to a reporting unit. As
such, all of the activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically developed, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its
respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required

  80 





Table of Contents

to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more likely than not the goodwill is
impaired, further analysis is required. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are derived based on valuation techniques the Company believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair values are
generally determined utilizing methodologies that incorporate price-to-book, price-to-earnings and assets under management multiples of certain comparable companies. The Company also utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology for certain reporting
units.    Intangible
Assets.    Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. For amortizable intangible assets,
an impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. An impairment loss will be recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying
amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows.    Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed annually (or more frequently when certain events or circumstances exist) for impairment. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, an
impairment exists when the carrying amount exceeds its fair value.   
For both goodwill and intangible assets, to the extent an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent
reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. For amortizable intangible assets, the new cost basis is amortized over the remaining useful life of that asset. Adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.
   See Notes 4 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements for
additional information about goodwill and intangible assets.   
Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies.   
In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class
actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution.   
Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts
of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.   
The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and
self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.
   Accruals for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally
determined on a case-by-case basis. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the
Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. For certain legal proceedings, the
Company can estimate possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued. For certain other legal proceedings, the Company cannot reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings
that are in their early stages of development or where plaintiffs seek substantial or indeterminate damages. Numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially 
  81 





Table of Contents

lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings in question, before a loss or additional loss or
range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for any proceeding.    The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These
tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when
determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled
with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company periodically evaluates the likelihood of assessments in each taxing jurisdiction resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations, and unrecognized tax benefits related
to potential losses that may arise from tax audits are established in accordance with the guidance on accounting for unrecognized tax benefits. Once established, unrecognized tax benefits are adjusted when there is more information available or
when an event occurs requiring a change.    The income of certain
foreign subsidiaries earned outside of the United States has been excluded from taxation in the U.S. as a result of a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income until such income is
repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This provision, which expired for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, had previously been extended by Congress on several occasions, including the most recent extension which
occurred during 2010. If this provision is not extended, the overall financial impact to the Company would depend upon the level, composition and geographic mix of future earnings but could increase the Company’s 2012 annual effective tax rate
and have an adverse impact on the Company’s net income, but not its cash flows due to utilization of tax attributes carryforwards.   
Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately
be materially different from the recorded accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, if any. See Notes 13 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations. 
  Special Purpose Entities and Variable Interest Entities. 
  The Company’s involvement with special purpose entities
(“SPE”) consists primarily of the following:   


 
•
 
 Transferring financial assets into SPEs;   


 
•
 
 Acting as an underwriter of beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles; 
 


 
•
 
 Holding one or more classes of securities issued by, or making loans to or investments in, SPEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets;
  


 
•
 
 Purchasing and selling (in both a market-making and a proprietary-trading capacity) securities issued by SPEs/variable interest entities
(“VIE”), whether such vehicles are sponsored by the Company or not;   


 
•
 
 Entering into derivative transactions with SPEs (whether or not sponsored by the Company); 
 


 
•
 
 Providing warehouse financing to collateralized debt obligations and collateralized loan obligations; 
 


 
•
 
 Entering into derivative agreements with non-SPEs whose value is derived from securities issued by SPEs; 
 


 
•
 
 Servicing assets held by SPEs or holding servicing rights related to assets held by SPEs that are serviced by others under subservicing arrangements;
  


 
•
 
 Serving as an asset manager to various investment funds that may invest in securities that are backed, in whole or in part, by SPEs; and

  82 





Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Structuring and/or investing in other structured transactions designed to provide enhanced, tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.
   The Company engages in securitization
activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial instruments. The Company’s involvement with SPEs is
discussed further in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.    In most cases, these SPEs are deemed for accounting purposes to be VIEs. The Company applies accounting guidance for consolidation of VIEs to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the
characteristics of a controlling financial interest. Entities that previously met the criteria as qualifying SPEs that were not subject to consolidation prior to January 1, 2010 became subject to the consolidation requirements for VIEs on that
date. Excluding entities subject to the Deferral (as defined in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), effective January 1, 2010, the primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that both (1) has the power to direct the activities
of a VIE that most significantly affect the VIE’s economic performance and (2) has an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company consolidates
entities of which it is the primary beneficiary.    The Company
determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon its initial involvement with the VIE and reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary on an ongoing basis as long as it has any continuing involvement with the VIE. This
determination is based upon an analysis of the design of the VIE, including the VIE’s structure and activities, the power to make significant economic decisions held by the Company and by other parties and the variable interests owned by the
Company and other parties.    See Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements for information on accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2010 for transfers of financial assets. 
  83 





Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources. 
  The Company’s senior management establishes the liquidity and capital
policies of the Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company’s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the
liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company’s asset and liability position. The Company’s Treasury Department, Firm Risk Committee, Asset and Liability Management Committee and other control groups assist in
evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company’s business activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure. Liquidity and capital matters are reported regularly to the
Board’s Risk Committee.    The Balance Sheet.
   The Company actively monitors and evaluates the composition
and size of its balance sheet. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from sales and trading activities in the Institutional Securities
business segment. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in managing the size of its balance sheet. The Company’s total assets decreased to $749,898 million at December 31, 2011 from $807,698 million at
December 31, 2010. The decrease in total assets was primarily due to a decrease in Financial instruments owned—Corporate equities and Corporate and other debt and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to sell and
Securities borrowed.    The Company’s assets and liabilities
are primarily related to transactions attributable to sales and trading and securities financing activities. At December 31, 2011, securities financing assets and liabilities were $332 billion and $268 billion, respectively. At
December 31, 2010, securities financing assets and liabilities were $358 billion and $321 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities
received as collateral and obligation to return securities received. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financings (see Notes 2 and 6
to the consolidated financial statements). Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned were $135 billion at December 31, 2011 and averaged $180 billion during 2011. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and
Securities borrowed were $257 billion at December 31, 2011 and averaged $303 billion during 2011. In both cases, the period end balance was lower than the average balances for 2011 primarily, due to a decrease in the overall balance sheet
during the year.    Securities financing assets and liabilities also
include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory positions. The customer receivable
portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated according to regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities
financing transactions primarily includes customer payables to the Company’s prime brokerage clients. The Company’s risk exposure on these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company’s credit
exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets were $12 billion and $17 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, recorded in accordance with accounting guidance for the transfer of financial
assets that represented offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions. 
  84 





Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the Company’s tangible common equity at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010 and average balances during 2011:   
















 
  
Balance at
 
 
Average Balance(1)
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
2011
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Common equity
  
$
60,541
  
 
$
47,614
  
 
$
54,382
  

 Preferred equity
  
 
1,508
  
 
 
9,597
  
 
 
5,241
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity
  
 
62,049
  
 
 
57,211
  
 
 
59,623
  

 Junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts
  
 
4,853
  
 
 
4,817
  
 
 
4,835
  

 Less: Goodwill and net intangible assets(2)
  
 
(6,691
) 
 
 
(6,947
) 
 
 
(6,836
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity
  
$
60,211
  
 
$
55,081
  
 
$
57,622
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Common equity
  
$
60,541
  
 
$
47,614
  
 
$
54,382
  

 Less: Goodwill and net intangible assets(2)
  
 
(6,691
) 
 
 
(6,947
) 
 
 
(6,836
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tangible common equity(3)
  
$
53,850
  
 
$
40,667
  
 
$
47,546
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
The Company calculates its average balances based upon month-end balances. 


(2)
The goodwill and net intangible assets deduction exclude mortgage servicing rights (net of disallowable mortgage servicing rights) of $120 million and $141 million at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and include only the Company’s share of MSSB’s goodwill and intangible assets. 


(3)
Tangible common equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, equals common equity less goodwill and net intangible assets as defined above. The Company views tangible common
equity as a useful measure to investors because it is a commonly utilized metric and reflects the common equity deployed in the Company’s businesses. 
  Balance Sheet and Funding Activity in 2011. 
  During 2011, the Company issued notes with a principal amount of
approximately $33 billion. In connection with the note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term LIBOR trading levels. The weighted average maturity of the
Company’s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5 years at December 31, 2011. During 2011, approximately $39 billion in aggregate long-term borrowings were matured or retired. Subsequent to
December 31, 2011 and through February 10, 2012, the Company’s long-term borrowings (net of issuances) decreased by approximately $6.8 billion.   
At December 31, 2011, the aggregate outstanding carrying amount of the Company’s senior indebtedness was approximately $176 billion (including
guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries) compared with $183 billion at December 31, 2010. The decrease in the amount of senior indebtedness was primarily due to repayments of notes, net of new issuances in long-term and
short-term borrowings.    MUFG Stock Conversion. 
  On June 30, 2011, MUFG’s outstanding Series B Preferred Stock was
converted into the Company’s common stock (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein).   
Capital Management.   
The Company’s senior management views capital as an important source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated capital
position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, risks, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand
or contract its capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total capital, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries’ equity. 
  85 





Table of Contents
At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share
repurchase program out of the $6 billion authorized by the Board of Directors in December 2006. The share repurchase program is for capital management purposes and considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as equity-based
compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. During 2011, the Company did not repurchase common stock as part of its capital management share repurchase program (see also
“Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Part II, Item 5).   
The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In January 2012, the Company announced that its Board of
Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.05. In December 2011, the Company also announced that the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $255.56 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock
(represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.25556) and a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred
Stock.    Required Capital. 
  Beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2010, the Company’s
capital estimation is based on the Required Capital Framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. This framework is a risk-based internal use of capital measure, which is compared with the Company’s regulatory capital to help ensure the
Company maintains an amount of risk-based going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from extreme stress events at a point in time. The difference between the Company’s regulatory capital and aggregate Required Capital is the
Company’s Parent capital. Average Tier 1 capital, aggregate Required capital and Parent capital for 2011 were approximately $51.2 billion, $30.9 billion and $20.3 billion, respectively. The Company generally holds Parent capital for prospective
regulatory requirements, including Basel III, organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs.    Tier 1 capital and common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by Required Capital. In principle, each business segment is capitalized as if it were an
independent operating entity with limited diversification benefit between the business segments. Required Capital is assessed at each business segment and further attributed to product lines. This process is intended to align capital with the risks
in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. The Required Capital Framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate
enhancements in modeling techniques. During 2012, the Company will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate. 
  For a further discussion of the Company’s Tier 1 capital, see
“Regulatory Requirements” herein.    The following table
presents the Company’s and business segments’ average Tier 1 capital and average common equity for 2011 and 2010.   




















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
AverageTier 1Capital
 
  
AverageCommonEquity
 
  
AverageTier 1Capital
 
  
AverageCommonEquity
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Institutional Securities
  
$
26.2
  
  
$
26.2
  
  
$
26.0
  
  
$
17.7
  

 Global Wealth Management Group
  
 
3.3
  
  
 
7.6
  
  
 
2.9
  
  
 
6.8
  

 Asset Management
  
 
1.4
  
  
 
2.2
  
  
 
1.9
  
  
 
2.1
  

 Parent capital
  
 
20.3
  
  
 
18.4
  
  
 
20.7
  
  
 
15.5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total from continuing operations
  
 
51.2
  
  
 
54.4
  
  
 
51.5
  
  
 
42.1
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
0.3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
51.2
  
  
$
54.4
  
  
$
51.6
  
  
$
42.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  86 





Table of Contents
Capital Covenants. 
  In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital
covenants in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the “Capital Securities”), which become effective after the scheduled redemption date in 2046. Under the terms of the
replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete
description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenants, see the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007. 
  Liquidity Risk Management Framework. 
  The primary goal of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework
is to ensure that the Company has access to adequate funding across a wide range of market conditions. The framework is designed to enable the Company to fulfill its financial obligations and support the execution of the Company’s business
strategies.    The following principles guide the Company’s
liquidity risk management framework:   


 
•
 
 Sufficient liquid assets should be maintained to cover maturing liabilities; 
 


 
•
 
 Maturity profile of assets and liabilities should be aligned, with limited reliance on short-term funding; 
 


 
•
 
 Source, counterparty, currency, region, and term of funding should be diversified; and 
 


 
•
 
 Limited access to funding should be anticipated through the Contingency Funding Plan. 
  The core components of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework
are the Contingency Funding Plan (“CFP”), Liquidity Stress Tests and the Global Liquidity Reserve. These elements support the Company’s target liquidity profile. 
  Contingency Funding Plan. 
  The Company maintains the CFP, which describes the data and information
flows, limits and triggers, escalation procedures, roles and responsibilities, and available mitigating actions in the event of a liquidity stress. The CFP assesses current and future funding sources and uses and establishes a plan for monitoring
and managing a potential liquidity stress event. A set of escalation triggers identifies early signs of stress and activates a response plan.   
Liquidity Stress Tests.   
The Company uses Liquidity Stress Tests to model liquidity outflows across multiple scenarios over a range of time horizons. These scenarios contain
various combinations of idiosyncratic and systemic stress events.   
The assumptions underpinning the Liquidity Stress Tests include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 


 
•
 
 No government support;   


 
•
 
 No access to equity and unsecured debt markets; 
 


 
•
 
 Repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year; 
 


 
•
 
 Higher haircuts and significantly lower availability of secured funding;   


 
•
 
 Additional collateral that would be required by trading counterparties and certain exchanges and clearing organizations related to multi-notch credit
rating downgrade;   


 
•
 
 Additional collateral that would be required due to collateral substitutions, collateral disputes and uncalled collateral;

  87 





Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Discretionary unsecured debt buybacks;   


 
•
 
 Drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; 
 


 
•
 
 Client cash withdrawals and reduction in customer short positions that fund long positions; 
 


 
•
 
 Limited access to the foreign exchange swap markets; 
 


 
•
 
 Return of securities borrowed on an uncollateralized basis; and 
 


 
•
 
 Maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance.    The Liquidity Stress Tests are produced at the Parent company (“Parent”) and major operating subsidiary levels, as
well as at major currency levels, to capture specific cash requirements and cash availability across the Company. The Liquidity Stress Tests assume that subsidiaries will use their own liquidity first to fund their obligations before drawing
liquidity from the Parent. The Parent will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to subsidiaries’ liquidity reserves that are subject to any regulatory, legal or tax constraints. 
  At December 31, 2011, the Company maintained sufficient liquidity
to meet current and contingent funding obligations as modeled in its Liquidity Stress Tests.    Global Liquidity Reserve.    The Company maintains sufficient liquidity reserves (“Global Liquidity Reserve”) to cover daily funding needs and meet strategic liquidity targets sized by the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests.
These liquidity targets are based on the Company’s risk tolerance, balance sheet level and composition, subsidiary funding needs, and upcoming debt maturities, which are subject to change dependent on market and firm-specific events.
   The Global Liquidity Reserve is held within the Parent and
operating subsidiaries. The Global Liquidity Reserve is comprised of highly liquid and diversified cash and cash equivalents and unencumbered securities. Eligible unencumbered securities include U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities,
U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, FDIC-guaranteed corporate debt and non-U.S. government securities.    Global Liquidity Reserve by Type of Investment.    The table below summarizes the Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve by type of investment:   








 
  
At December 31,2011
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Cash deposits with banks
  
$
9
  

 Cash deposits with central banks
  
 
31
  

 Unencumbered highly liquid securities:
  




 U.S. Government obligations
  
 
80
  

 U.S. agency and agency mortgage-backed securities
  
 
36
  

 Non-U.S. sovereign obligations(1)
  
 
14
  

 Investments in money market funds
  
 
1
  

 Other investment grade securities
  
 
11
  


  
  
  
 

 Global Liquidity Reserve
  
$
182
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
At December 31, 2011, approximately 93% of Non-U.S sovereign obligations were rated AAA.    The ability to monetize assets during the start of a liquidity crisis is critical. The Company believes that the assets held in
the Global Liquidity Reserve can be monetized within five business days in a stressed environment given the highly liquid and diversified nature of the reserves. 
  88 





Table of Contents
The currency profile of the Global Liquidity Reserve is consistent with the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests.
   In addition to the Global Liquidity Reserve, the Company has
other cash and cash equivalents and other unencumbered assets that are available for monetization which are not included in the balances in the table above.   
Global Liquidity Reserve Held by the Parent and Operating Subsidiaries. 
  The table below summarizes the Global Liquidity Reserve held by the Parent
and operating subsidiaries:   












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
Average Balance(1)2011
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Parent
  
$
75
  
  
$
78
  

 Non-Bank Subsidiaries:
  



  




 Domestic
  
 
18
  
  
 
12
  

 Foreign
  
 
26
  
  
 
23
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Non-Bank Subsidiaries
  
 
44
  
  
 
35
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Bank Subsidiaries:
  



  




 Domestic
  
 
56
  
  
 
57
  

 Foreign
  
 
7
  
  
 
7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Bank Subsidiaries
  
 
63
  
  
 
64
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
182
  
  
$
177
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The Company calculates the average Global Liquidity Reserve based upon daily amounts. 
  The Company is exposed to intra-day settlement risk in connection with
liquidity provided to its major broker-dealer subsidiaries for intra-day clearing and settlement of its securities and financing activity.   
As mentioned in “Contingency Funding Plan,” the CFP assumes that the Parent will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to
subsidiaries’ liquidity reserves that are subject to any regulatory, legal or tax constraints.    Funding Management.    The Company’s funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company’s operations. The Company
pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company’s liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the
assets being financed.    The Company funds its balance sheet on a
global basis through diverse sources. These sources may include the Company’s equity capital, long-term debt, repurchase agreements, securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has active
financing programs for both standard and structured products targeting global investors and currencies.    Secured Financing.    A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term collateralized receivables arising
principally from its Institutional Securities business segment’s sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing these assets with collateralized borrowings. 
  89 





Table of Contents
The Company’s goal is to achieve an optimal mix of secured and unsecured funding while ensuring
continued growth in stable funding sources. The Institutional Securities business segment emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is generally more subject to disruption
during periods of financial stress. The ability to fund less liquid assets on a secured basis may be impaired in a stress environment. To manage this risk, the Company obtains longer-term secured financing for less liquid assets and has minimal
reliance on overnight financing. At December 31, 2011, the weighted average maturity of the Company’s secured financing against less liquid collateral was greater than 120 days. The Company defines less liquid collateral as that
which is not consistent with the standards of the Global Liquidity Reserve. In addition, the Company minimizes refinancing risk by diversifying across both counterparties and maturities. The Company holds a portion of its Global Liquidity
Reserve against a potential disruption to its secured financing capabilities. This potential disruption may be in the form of additional margin or reduced capacity to refinance maturing trades. The Company actively manages its secured financing
book in accordance with established limits on tenor by asset class and seeks to build a sufficient buffer to offset various risks discussed above.   
Unsecured Financing.    The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding for core inventories
and less liquid assets. Securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, deposits, floating rate long-term debt and fixed rate long-term debt
swapped to a floating rate. The Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management and to hedge interest rate risk (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements).
   Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
(“TLGP”).    In October 2008, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury invoked the systemic risk exception of the FDIC Improvement Act of 1991, and the FDIC announced the TLGP. Based on the Final Rule adopted on
November 21, 2008, the TLGP provides a guarantee, through the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012, of certain senior unsecured debt issued by participating Eligible Entities (including the Company) between October 14, 2008 and
June 30, 2009. Of the $23.8 billion issued by the Company under the TLGP, $12.1 billion was still outstanding at December 31, 2011.   
Short-Term Borrowings.    The Company’s unsecured short-term borrowings consist of commercial paper, bank loans,
bank notes and structured notes with maturities of 12 months or less at issuance.    The table below summarizes the Company’s short-term unsecured borrowings:   












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Commercial paper(1)
  
$
978
  
  
$
945
  

 Other short-term borrowings
  
 
1,865
  
  
 
2,311
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,843
  
  
$
3,256
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
At December 31, 2011, the majority of the commercial paper balance was issued as part of client transactions and is not used for the Company’s general funding
purposes.   
Deposits.    The Company’s bank subsidiaries’ funding sources include bank deposits, repurchase agreements,
federal funds purchased, certificates of deposit, money market deposit accounts, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The vast majority of deposits in Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association
(the “Subsidiary Banks”) are sourced from the Company’s retail brokerage accounts and are considered to have stable, low cost funding characteristics. 
  90 





Table of Contents
Deposits were as follows:   












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011(1)
 
  
AtDecember 31,2010(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Savings and demand deposits(2)
  
$
63,029
  
  
$
59,856
  

 Time deposits(3)
  
 
2,633
  
  
 
3,956
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
65,662
  
  
$
63,812
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Total deposits subject to FDIC Insurance at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were $52 billion and $48 billion, respectively. 


(2)
Amounts include non-interest bearing deposits of $1,270 million and $30 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.



(3)
Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  With the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the statutory standard maximum
deposit insurance amount was permanently increased to $250,000 per depositor and is in effect for the Subsidiary Banks.   
Long-Term Borrowings.    The Company uses a variety of long-term debt funding sources to generate liquidity, taking CFP
requirements into consideration. In addition, the issuance of long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Long-term borrowings
are generally structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can
vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company’s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. 
  The Company may from time to time engage in various transactions in the
credit markets (including, for example, debt retirements) that it believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors.   
Long-term borrowings at December 31, 2011 consisted of the following:   
















 
  
Parent
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Due in 2012
  
$
33,811
  
  
$
1,271
  
  
$
35,082
  

 Due in 2013
  
 
24,464
  
  
 
554
  
  
 
25,018
  

 Due in 2014
  
 
20,493
  
  
 
991
  
  
 
21,484
  

 Due in 2015
  
 
17,914
  
  
 
3,974
  
  
 
21,888
  

 Due in 2016
  
 
17,557
  
  
 
1,470
  
  
 
19,027
  

 Thereafter
  
 
60,522
  
  
 
1,213
  
  
 
61,735
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
174,761
  
  
$
9,473
  
  
$
184,234
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Credit Ratings. 
  The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of
its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of financing generally is impacted by the Company’s credit ratings. In addition, the Company’s credit ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in
those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of the Company’s
credit ratings include governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction and business mix. Additionally, the agencies will look at other
industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support. 
  91 





Table of Contents
The rating agencies have stated that they currently incorporate various degrees of uplift from perceived
government support in the credit ratings of systemically important banks, including the credit ratings of the Company. Rating agencies continue to monitor progress of U.S. financial reform legislation to assess whether the possibility of
extraordinary government support for the financial system in any future financial crises is negatively impacted. Legislative outcomes may lead to reduced uplift assumptions for U.S. banks and thereby place downward pressure on credit ratings. At the
same time, proposed U.S. financial reform legislation also has positive implications for credit ratings such as higher standards for capital and liquidity levels. The net result on credit ratings and the timing of any change in rating agency
assumptions on support is currently uncertain.    At
February 17, 2012, the Company’s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s senior unsecured ratings were as set forth below. The long-term credit ratings on the Company by Moody’s Investor Services, Inc (“Moody’s”) and
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) are currently at different levels (commonly referred to as “split ratings”).   
















 
 
Company
 
Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.

 
 
Short-TermDebt
 
Long-TermDebt
 
RatingOutlook
 
Short-TermDebt
 
Long-TermDebt
 
RatingOutlook

 Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited
 
R-1 (middle)
 
A (high)
 
Negative
 
—  
 
—  
 
—  

 Fitch Ratings(1)
 
F1
 
A
 
Stable
 
F1
 
A
 
Stable

 Moody’s Investor Services, Inc.(2)
 
P-1
 
A2
 
DowngradeReview
 
P-1
 
A1
 
DowngradeReview

 Rating and Investment Information, Inc.
 
a-1
 
A+
 
Negative
 
—  
 
—  
 
—  

 Standard & Poor’s(3)
 
A-2
 
A-
 
Negative
 
A-1
 
A
 
Negative
  


(1)
On December 13, 2011, in the context of a global review of trading and universal banks, Fitch Ratings affirmed the Company’s and Morgan Stanley Bank,
N.A.’s A/F1 long- and short-term debt ratings. A Stable Outlook was assigned. 


(2)
On February 15, 2012, Moody’s placed the ratings of 17 banks on review for downgrade in the context of a broad review of global banks with capital markets
operations. As part of this review, Moody’s placed the Company’s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A’s “A2/A1” long-term and “P-1” short-term ratings on review for downgrade. 


(3)
On November 29, 2011, Standard & Poor’s released new bank ratings for the top global banks based upon its revised methodology. The Company’s
long- and short-term debt ratings were lowered one-notch from A/A-1 to A-/A-2 and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A’s long-term debt rating was lowered from A+ to A. Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s short-term debt rating was affirmed at A-1.
   In connection with certain OTC trading agreements
and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties in the
event of a credit rating downgrade. The following are the amounts of additional collateral or termination payments that could be called by counterparties under the terms of such agreements in the event of a downgrade of the Company’s long-term
credit rating under various scenarios at December 31, 2011: $919 million (A3 Moody’s/A- S&P); $3,989 million (Baa1 Moody’s/ BBB+ S&P); and $4,743 million (Baa2 Moody’s/BBB S&P). 
  Also, the Company is required to pledge additional collateral to certain
exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade. At December 31, 2011, the increased collateral requirement at certain exchanges and clearing organizations under various scenarios was $118 million (A3
Moody’s/A- S&P); $1,183 million (Baa1 Moody’s/ BBB+ S&P); and $1,775 million (Baa2 Moody’s/BBB S&P).   
The liquidity impact of additional collateral requirements is accounted for in the Company’s CFP. 
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.
   The Company enters into various arrangements with
unconsolidated entities, including VIEs, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities business segment.   
Institutional Securities Activities.    The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization
activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency 
  92 





Table of Contents

collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or
more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of
income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $2.9 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, substantially all of which were related to U.S. agency collateralized
mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. For further information about the Company’s securitization activities, see Notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
   The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and
other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity
facilities (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements).   
Asset Management Activities.    As a general partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company
receives distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited
partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations.   
Guarantees.    Accounting guidance for guarantees requires the Company to disclose information about its obligations
under certain guarantee arrangements. Guarantees are defined as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or
foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Guarantees are also defined as contracts that
contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. 
  The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company’s
obligations under guarantee arrangements at December 31, 2011:   
































 
 
Maximum Potential Payout/Notional
 
 
CarryingAmount(Asset)/Liability
 
 
Collateral/Recourse
 

 
 
Years to Maturity
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Type of Guarantee
 
Less than 1
 
 
1-3
 
 
3-5
 
 
Over 5
 
 
Total
 
 
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Credit derivative contracts(1)
 
$
487,620
  
 
$
828,686
  
 
$
787,357
  
 
$
328,741
  
 
$
2,432,404
  
 
$
93,629
  
 
$
—  
  

 Other credit contracts
 
 
65
  
 
 
2,356
  
 
 
717
  
 
 
2,469
  
 
 
5,607
  
 
 
(1,146
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Non-credit derivative contracts(1)
 
 
1,332,802
  
 
 
835,776
  
 
 
318,162
  
 
 
309,471
  
 
 
2,796,211
  
 
 
112,936
  
 
 
—  
  

 Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued(2)(3)
 
 
1,426
  
 
 
788
  
 
 
1,055
  
 
 
5,554
  
 
 
8,823
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
5,749
  

 Market value guarantees
 
 
—  
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
203
  
 
 
561
  
 
 
817
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
90
  

 Liquidity facilities
 
 
5,021
  
 
 
1,232
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
6,358
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,995
  

 Whole loan sales representations and warranties
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,557
  
 
 
24,557
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
—  
  

 Securitization representations and warranties
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
83,544
  
 
 
83,544
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
—  
  

 General partner guarantees
 
 
259
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
471
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
—  
  
  


(1)
Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts,
see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. 


(2)
Approximately $2.4 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the “Commitments” table in primary and secondary lending commitments.
Standby letters of credit are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition. 
  93 





Table of Contents


(3)
Amounts include guarantees issued by consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company of approximately $291 million. These guarantees relate to obligations
of the fund’s investee entities, including guarantees related to capital expenditures and principal and interest debt payments. Accrued losses under these guarantees of approximately $55 million are reflected as a reduction of the carrying
value of the related fund investments, which are reflected in Financial instruments owned—Investments on the consolidated statements of financial condition. 
  In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or
certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are
required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
  See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for information on other
guarantees and indemnities.    Commitments and Contractual
Obligations.    The Company’s commitments associated with
outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending at December 31, 2011 are
summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: 
 
























 
 
Years to Maturity
 
 
Total atDecember 31,2011
 

 
 
Lessthan 1
 
 
1-3
 
 
3-5
 
 
Over 5
 
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements
 
$
1,645
  
 
$
6
  
 
$
6
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
1,657
  

 Investment activities
 
 
1,146
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
1,801
  

 Primary lending commitments—investment grade(1)(2)
 
 
11,581
  
 
 
10,206
  
 
 
29,417
  
 
 
440
  
 
 
51,644
  

 Primary lending commitments—non-investment grade(2)
 
 
1,027
  
 
 
3,937
  
 
 
9,014
  
 
 
1,673
  
 
 
15,651
  

 Secondary lending commitments(3)
 
 
90
  
 
 
305
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
548
  

 Commitments for secured lending transactions
 
 
293
  
 
 
295
  
 
 
159
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
747
  

 Forward starting reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing agreements(4)
 
 
40,792
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
40,792
  

 Commercial and residential mortgage-related commitments
 
 
790
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
1,448
  

 Other commitments
 
 
1,013
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,324
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
58,377
  
 
$
15,394
  
 
$
38,844
  
 
$
2,997
  
 
$
115,612
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
This amount includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $275 million at December 31, 2011, of which $138 million have maturities of less
than one year and $137 million of which have maturities of one to three years. 


(2)
This amount includes $6.4 billion of investment grade and $1.6 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for investment at
December 31, 2011. The remainder of these lending commitments are carried at fair value. 


(3)
These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of
financial condition (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 


(4)
The Company enters into forward starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2011
and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days and of the amount at
December 31, 2011, $36.4 billion settled within three business days.    For further description of these commitments, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit
Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein. 
  94 





Table of Contents
In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require
future cash payments. Contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases, purchase obligations and expected contributions for pension
and postretirement plans. The Company’s future cash payments associated with certain of its obligations at December 31, 2011 are summarized below:   
























 
  
Payments Due in:
 

 At December 31, 2011
  
2012
 
  
2013-2014
 
  
2015-2016
 
  
Thereafter
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Long-term borrowings(1)
  
$
35,082
  
  
$
46,502
  
  
$
40,915
  
  
$
61,735
  
  
$
184,234
  

 Other secured financings(1)
  
 
8,361
  
  
 
6,114
  
  
 
1,478
  
  
 
2,743
  
  
 
18,696
  

 Contractual interest payments(2)
  
 
6,418
  
  
 
10,830
  
  
 
7,936
  
  
 
21,659
  
  
 
46,843
  

 Contractual interest payments on time deposits(3)
  
 
1,228
  
  
 
1,493
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,721
  

 Operating leases—office facilities(4)
  
 
693
  
  
 
1,229
  
  
 
876
  
  
 
2,453
  
  
 
5,251
  

 Operating leases—equipment(4)
  
 
210
  
  
 
429
  
  
 
158
  
  
 
162
  
  
 
959
  

 Purchase obligations(5)
  
 
814
  
  
 
621
  
  
 
270
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
1,759
  

 Pension and postretirement plans—expected contribution(6)
  
 
50
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
50
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total(7)
  
$
52,856
  
  
$
67,218
  
  
$
51,633
  
  
$
88,806
  
  
$
260,513
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Amounts presented for Other secured financings are financings with original maturities greater than one year.



(2)
Amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings based on applicable interest rates at December 31, 2011.
Amounts include stated coupon rates, if any, on structured or index-linked notes. 


(3)
Amounts represent contractual principal and interest payments related to time deposits primarily held at the Subsidiary Banks. 


(4)
See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. 


(5)
Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, printing, computer and telecommunications maintenance
agreements, certain license agreements related to MSSB, and certain transmission, transportation and storage contracts related to the commodities business. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2011 reflect the minimum contractual obligation
under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company’s consolidated statement of
financial condition. 


(6)
See Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. 


(7)
Amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial
statements for further information).    Regulatory
Requirements.    Capital. 
  The Company is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company
Act of 1956, as amended and is subject to the regulation and oversight of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company’s compliance
with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company’s national bank subsidiaries (see “Other Matters—Regulatory Outlook” herein).
   The Company calculates its capital ratios and risk-weighted
assets (“RWA”) in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Federal Reserve. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital
Measurement and Capital Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations incorporating the Basel II Accord, which requires internationally active banking
organizations, as well as certain of their U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. In July 2010, the Company began reporting its capital adequacy standards on a parallel basis to its regulators under
Basel I and Basel II as part of a phased implementation of Basel II. 
  95 





Table of Contents
In June 2011, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations implementing a provision of the
Dodd-Frank Act requiring certain institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve, including the Company, be subject to capital requirements that are not less than the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements. As a result, the
generally applicable capital standards, which are based on Basel I standards, but may themselves change over time, will serve as a permanent floor to minimum capital requirements calculated under the Basel II standards the Company is currently
required to implement, as well as future capital standards.   Basel
III contains new capital standards that raise the quality of capital and strengthen counterparty credit risk capital requirements and introduce a leverage ratio as a supplemental measure to the risk-based ratio. Basel III includes a new capital
conservation buffer, which imposes a common equity requirement above the new minimum that can be depleted under stress, subject to restrictions on capital actions, a new additional loss absorbency capital requirement for global systemically
important banks (“GSIB”) such as the Company, and a new countercyclical buffer which regulators can activate during periods of excessive credit growth in their jurisdiction. The Basel III proposals complement an earlier proposal for
revisions to the market risk framework that increases capital requirements for securitizations within the Company’s trading book. In 2011, the U.S. regulators issued proposed rules that are intended to implement certain aspects of the market
risk framework proposals. The U.S. regulators will require implementation of Basel III subject to an extended phase-in period.   
In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued final rules on Capital Plans, which require large bank holding companies such as the Company to submit
capital plans on an annual basis in order for the Federal Reserve to assess the companies’ systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenue and losses to monitor and maintain their internal capital adequacy.
The rules also require that such companies to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve before making a capital action.   
Under the Basel Committee’s proposed framework, based on a preliminary analysis of the guidelines published to date and other factors, the Company
estimates its pro forma Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III will be in a range between 8% and 10% by the end of 2012. These are preliminary estimates and may change based on guidelines for implementation to be issued by the Federal Reserve. These
preliminary estimates are forward-looking and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, please see
“Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A herein.    In
accordance with the Federal Reserve’s new Capital Plans final rule, Tier 1 common capital is calculated as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital. Non-common elements include perpetual preferred stock and related
surplus, minority interests in subsidiaries, trust preferred securities and mandatory convertible preferred securities. The Federal Reserve will work with the other federal banking agencies to implement Basel III and to propose a Basel III Tier
1 common capital ratio as a new minimum regulatory capital ratio. The existing supervisory definition of Tier 1 common capital will remain in force under the Capital Plans final rule until the Federal Reserve adopts the Basel III Tier 1 common
ratio.    Pursuant to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, over time,
trust preferred securities will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital but will only qualify as Tier 2 capital. This change in regulatory capital treatment will be phased in incrementally during a transition period that will start on January 1,
2013 and end on January 1, 2016. This provision of the Dodd-Frank Act accelerates the phasing in of the disqualification of the trust preferred securities as provided for by Basel III.    At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with Basel I capital requirements with ratios of Tier 1 capital
to RWAs of 16.6% and total capital to RWAs of 17.8% (6% and 10% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes, respectively). Also, the ratio of Tier 1 common capital to RWAs was 13.0% (5% being the minimum under the Federal
Reserve’s new capital plan framework). In addition, financial holding companies are also subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Federal Reserve. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by
adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed 
  96 





Table of Contents

goodwill, certain intangible assets, deferred tax assets and financial and non-financial equity investments). The adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for the year. At
December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with this leverage restriction, with a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 6.8% (5% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes). 
  The following table reconciles the Company’s total shareholders’
equity to Tier 1 common, Tier 1, Tier 2 and Total allowable capital as defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve and presents the Company’s consolidated capital ratios at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
  












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
 
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Allowable capital
  



 




 Common shareholders’ equity
  
$
60,541
  
 
$
47,614
  

 Less: Goodwill
  
 
(6,686
) 
 
 
(6,739
) 

 Less: Non-servicing intangible assets
  
 
(4,165
) 
 
 
(4,526
) 

 Less: Net deferred tax assets
  
 
(4,860
) 
 
 
(3,984
) 

 Less: After-tax debt valuation adjustment
  
 
(2,296
) 
 
 
(20
) 

 Other deductions
  
 
(1,511
) 
 
 
(1,986
) 

 MSSB Goodwill/Intangibles-Apportionment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4,317
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier 1 common capital(2)
  
 
41,023
  
 
 
34,676
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Qualifying preferred stock
  
 
1,508
  
 
 
9,597
  

 Qualifying restricted core capital elements
  
 
9,821
  
 
 
12,924
  

 Less: MSSB Goodwill/Intangibles-Apportionment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,317
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier 1 capital
  
 
52,352
  
 
 
52,880
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Qualifying subordinated debt and restricted core capital elements
  
 
4,546
  
 
 
2,412
  

 Other qualifying amounts
  
 
17
  
 
 
82
  

 Other deductions
  
 
(721
) 
 
 
(897
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier 2 capital
  
 
3,842
  
 
 
1,597
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total allowable capital
  
$
56,194
  
 
$
54,477
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total risk weighted assets(1)
  
$
315,293
  
 
$
340,884
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Capital ratios
  



 




 Total capital ratio(1)
  
 
17.8
% 
 
 
16.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier 1 common capital ratio(1)(2)
  
 
13.0
% 
 
 
10.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier 1 capital ratio(1)
  
 
16.6
% 
 
 
15.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier 1 leverage ratio
  
 
6.8
% 
 
 
6.6
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
At December 31, 2010, the Company’s RWAs, Total capital ratio, Tier 1 common capital ratio and Tier 1 capital ratio were adjusted to $340,884 million, 16.0%,
10.2% and 15.5%, respectively, from $329,560 million, 16.5%, 10.5% and 16.1%, respectively, based on revised guidance from the Federal Reserve about the Company’s capital treatment for OTC derivatives collateral. 


(2)
Tier 1 common capital ratio equals Tier 1 common capital divided by RWA. On December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve formalized regulatory definitions for Tier 1
common capital and Tier 1 common capital ratio. The Federal Reserve defined Tier 1 common capital as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital, including perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, minority interest in
subsidiaries, trust preferred securities and mandatory convertible preferred securities. Previously, the Company’s definition of Tier 1 common capital included all of the items noted in the Federal Reserve’s definition, but it also
included an adjustment for the portion of goodwill and non-servicing intangible assets associated with MSSB’s noncontrolling interests (i.e., Citi’s share of MSSB’s goodwill and intangibles). The Company’s conformance to the
Federal Reserve’s definition under the final rule reduced its Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common ratio by approximately $4.2 billion and 132 basis points, respectively at December 31, 2011. 
  97 





Table of Contents
Total allowable capital is composed of Tier 1 capital, which includes Tier 1 common capital, and Tier 2
capital. Tier 1 common capital is defined as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital, including qualifying perpetual stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements, as per the Capital Plans final rule. Tier 1 capital
consists predominately of common shareholders’ equity as well as qualifying preferred stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements (trust preferred securities and noncontrolling interests) less goodwill, non-servicing intangible assets
(excluding allowable mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year), an after-tax debt valuation adjustment and certain other deductions, including equity investments. The debt valuation adjustment in the
above table represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain long-term and short-term borrowings that was attributable to the Company’s own instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. For a further
discussion of fair value, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.    At December 31, 2011, the Company calculated its RWAs in accordance with the regulatory capital requirements of the Federal Reserve, which is consistent with guidelines described under Basel I. RWAs
reflect both on and off-balance sheet risk of the Company. The risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the Company enhances its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance
with the regulatory requirements and interpretations.    Market RWAs
reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. For a further discussion of the Company’s market risks and Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) model, see
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A herein. Market RWAs incorporate two components: systematic risk and specific risk. Systematic and specific risk charges are computed
using either the Company’s VaR model or Standardized Approach in accordance with regulatory requirements.    Credit RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. For a further discussion of the Company’s
credit risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.   
Liquidity.   
The Basel Committee has developed two standards for supervisors to use in liquidity risk supervision. The first standard’s objective is to promote
the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks and bank holding companies. The Basel Committee developed the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) to ensure banks have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to cover net
outflows arising from significant stress lasting 30 calendar days. The standard requires that the value of the ratio be no lower than 100%. The second standard’s objective is to promote resilience over a longer time horizon. The Net Stable
Funding Ratio (“NSFR”) has a time horizon of one year and builds on traditional “net liquid asset” and “cash capital” methodologies used widely by internationally active banking organizations to provide a sustainable
maturity structure of assets and liabilities. The NSFR is defined as the amount of available stable funding to the amount of required stable funding. This ratio must be greater than 100%. After an observation period beginning in 2011, the LCR,
including any revisions, will be introduced on January 1, 2015. The NSFR, including any revisions, will move to a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. The Company will continue to monitor the development and the potential impact of these
standards.    In addition, in December 2011, the Federal Reserve
issued proposed rules to implement certain requirements of the systemic risk regime, including with respect to liquidity. The proposed rules would require systemically important financial institutions, such as the Company, to maintain a sufficient
quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event, to conduct regular liquidity stress tests, and to implement various liquidity risk management requirements. 
  98 





Table of Contents
Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. 
  The Company’s assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and,
therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the Company’s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising
interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and profitability. 
  A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in
currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company’s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S.
dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. 
  99 





Table of Contents
Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk.    Risk Management. 
  Overview.    Management believes effective risk management is vital to the success of the Company’s business activities. Accordingly,
the Company employs an enterprise risk management (“ERM”) framework to integrate the diverse roles of the risk departments into a holistic enterprise structure and to facilitate the incorporation of risk evaluation into decision-making
processes across the Company. The Company has policies and procedures in place to identify, assess, monitor and manage the significant risks involved in the activities of its Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset
Management business segments as well as at the holding company level. Principal risks involved in the Company’s business activities include market, credit, capital and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risk. 
  The cornerstone of the Company’s risk management philosophy is the
execution of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk-taking that protects the Company’s capital base and franchise. Five key principles underlie this philosophy: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and
transparency. The fast-paced, complex, and constantly-evolving nature of global financial markets requires that the Company maintain a risk management culture that is incisive, knowledgeable about specialized products and markets, and subject to
ongoing review and enhancement. To help ensure the efficacy of risk management, which is an essential component of the Company’s reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and the appropriate escalation of risk
matters.    Risk Governance Structure. 
  Risk management at the Company requires independent company-level oversight,
accountability of the Company’s business segments, and effective communication of risk matters to senior management and across the Company. The nature of the Company’s risks, coupled with its risk management philosophy, informs the
Company’s risk governance structure. The Company’s risk governance structure is comprised of the Board of Directors; the Risk Committee of the Board (“BRC”), the Audit Committee of the Board (“BAC”), and the Operations
and Technology Committee of the Board (“BOTC”); the Firm Risk Committee (“FRC”); senior management oversight (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief
Compliance Officer); the Internal Audit Department and risk managers, committees, and groups within and across the Company’s business segments. A risk governance structure composed of independent but complementary entities facilitates efficient
and comprehensive supervision of the Company’s risk exposures and processes.    Morgan Stanley Board of Directors.    The Board has oversight for the Company’s ERM framework and is responsible for helping to ensure that the Company’s risks
are managed in a sound manner. The Board has authorized the committees within the ERM framework to help facilitate its risk oversight responsibilities.   
Risk Committee of the Board.    The BRC, appointed by the Board, is composed of non-management directors. The BRC is
responsible for assisting the Board in the oversight of the Company’s risk governance structure; the Company’s risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding market, credit, and liquidity and funding risk; the
Company’s risk tolerance; and the performance of the Chief Risk Officer. The BRC reports to the full Board on a regular basis.   
Audit Committee of the Board.    The BAC, appointed by the Board, is composed of independent directors (pursuant to the
Company’s Corporate Governance Policies and applicable New York Stock Exchange and Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rules) and is responsible for oversight of the integrity of the Company’s consolidated financial
statements, the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the Company’s system of internal controls, the qualifications and independence of the Company’s 
  100
 




Table of Contents

independent auditor, and the performance of the Company’s internal and independent auditors. In addition, the BAC assists the Board in its oversight of certain aspects of risk management,
including review of the major franchise, reputational, legal and compliance risk exposures of the Company and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures, as well as guidelines and policies that govern the process for risk
assessment and risk management. The BAC reports to the full Board on a regular basis.    Operations and Technology Committee of the Board.    The BOTC, established in 2011 and appointed by the Board, is responsible for assisting the Board in its oversight of
the Company’s operations and technology strategy—and significant investments in support of such strategy—and operational risks, reviewing the major operational risk exposures of the Company and the steps management has taken to
monitor and control such exposures. The BOTC is also responsible for the review and approval of operations and technology policies, as well as the review of the Company’s risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding
operational risk. The BOTC reports to the full Board on a regular basis.    Firm Risk Committee.    The Board has also authorized the FRC, a management committee appointed and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which includes the most senior
officers of the Company, including the Chief Risk Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to oversee Morgan Stanley’s risk management structure. The FRC’s responsibilities include oversight of the Company’s risk
management principles, procedures and limits and the monitoring of capital levels and material market, credit, liquidity and funding, legal, compliance, operational, franchise and regulatory risk matters, and other risks, as appropriate, and the
steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. The FRC reports to the full Board, the BAC, the BOTC and the BRC through the Company’s Chief Risk Officer and Chief Financial Officer. 
  Chief Risk Officer.    The Chief Risk
Officer, who reports to the Chief Executive Officer and the BRC, oversees compliance with Company risk limits; approves exceptions to the Company’s risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk
management processes with the Board, the BRC, the BAC, and the BOTC, as appropriate. The Chief Risk Officer also coordinates with the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board to evaluate whether the Company’s
compensation arrangements encourage unnecessary or excessive risk-taking, and whether risks arising from the Company’s compensation arrangements are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company. 
  Internal Audit Department.    The Internal
Audit Department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the BAC and administratively to the Chief Legal Officer. The Internal Audit Department examines the Company’s operational and control environment and conducts
audits designed to cover all major risk categories.   
Independent Risk Management Functions.    The independent risk management functions (Market Risk, Credit Risk
Management, Operational Risk and Corporate Treasury departments) are independent of the Company’s business units. These groups assist senior management and the FRC in monitoring and controlling the Company’s risk through a number of
control processes. Each function maintains its own risk governance structure with specified individuals and committees responsible for aspects of managing risk. Further discussion about the responsibilities of the risk management functions may be
found below under “Market Risk,” “Credit Risk,” and “Operational Risk” and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in
Part II, Item 7 herein.    Control
Groups.    The Company control groups include the Human Resources Department, the Legal and Compliance Division, the Operations Division, Global Technology and Data, the Tax Department and Finance. The Company control
groups coordinate with the business segment control groups to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, controls over financial reporting and disclosure; the business segment’s
market, credit and operational risk profile; sales practices; reputation; legal enforceability; and operational and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Company and business segment control groups helps ensure that risk
policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo thorough review. 
  101
 




Table of Contents
Divisional Risk Committees.    Each business segment has a risk committee
that is responsible for helping to ensure that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that
are consistent with the risk framework established by the FRC; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies
and procedures, and related controls.    Stress Value-at-Risk.
   The Company frequently enhances its market and credit
risk management framework to address severe stresses that are observed in global markets during economic downturns. During 2011, the Company expanded and improved its risk measurement processes, including stress tests and scenario analysis, and
further refined its market and credit risk limit framework. Stress Value-at-Risk (“S-VaR”), a proprietary methodology that comprehensively measures the Company’s market and credit risks, was further refined and continues to be an
important metric used in establishing the Company’s risk appetite and its capital allocation framework. S-VaR simulates many stress scenarios based on more than 25 years of historical data and attempts to capture the different liquidities of
various types of general and specific risks. Additionally, S-VaR captures event and default risks that are particularly relevant for credit portfolios.   
Risk Management Process.   
The following is a discussion of the Company’s risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (capital and liquidity risk is
discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 herein). The discussion focuses on the Company’s securities
activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. The Company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. This discussion and the estimated amounts of
the Company’s risk exposure generated by the Company’s statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly
from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the Company operates and certain other factors described below.   
Market Risk.    Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices),
correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. Generally, the Company incurs market risk as a result of trading, investing and client facilitation activities, principally within the
Institutional Securities business segment where the substantial majority of the Company’s Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) for market risk exposures is generated. In addition, the Company incurs trading-related market risk within the Global
Wealth Management Group. Asset Management incurs principally Non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity vehicles.    Sound market risk management is an integral part of the Company’s culture. The various business units and trading desks
are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. The control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. The Market Risk Department is
responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these responsibilities, the Market Risk Department
monitors the Company’s risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the Company’s VaR and scenario analysis systems. These limits are designed to
control price and market liquidity risk. Market risk is also monitored through various measures: statistically (using VaR and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing, which measures the
impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors, and scenario 
  102
 




Table of Contents

analyses conducted by the Market Risk Department in collaboration with the business units. The material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the Market Risk
Department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the FRC, the BRC, and the Board of Directors.   
Sales and Trading and Related Activities.   
Primary Market Risk Exposures and Market Risk Management.    During 2011, the Company had exposures to a wide range of
interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices—and the associated implied volatilities and spreads—related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. 
  The Company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of
its market-making activities and other trading in interest rate-sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve
and credit spreads). The activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the Company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: corporate and government debt across both developed and emerging markets and
asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities).    The
Company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in non-public entities). Positions in non-public entities may
include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. Such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed
equities.    The Company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and
implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non-U.S. dollar-denominated financial instruments. 
  The Company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a
result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. Commodity exposures are subject to periods
of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. These changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and
level of demand for these commodities.    The Company manages its
trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial
instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). Hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or
other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and
on an individual product basis. The Company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects
the Company’s aggregate risk tolerance as established by the Company’s senior management.    Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Company across all divisions worldwide. Additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions.
Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management.    VaR.    The Company uses the statistical technique known as VaR as one of the tools used to
measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. The Market Risk Department calculates and distributes daily VaR-based risk measures to various levels of management. 
  103
 




Table of Contents
VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations.    The Company estimates VaR
using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and Monte Carlo simulation for name-specific risk in corporate shares, bonds, loans and related derivatives. Historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of
hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market risk factors; and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to
these market risk factor changes. The Company’s VaR model uses four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. The Company’s 95%/one-day VaR corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value
that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. 
  The Company’s VaR model generally takes into account linear and
non-linear exposures to equity and commodity price risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign exchange rates. The model also takes into account linear exposures to implied volatility risks for all asset classes and non-linear exposures
to implied volatility risks for equity, commodity and foreign exchange referenced products. The VaR model also captures certain implied correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives as well as certain basis risks (e.g., corporate
debt and related credit derivatives).    Among their benefits, VaR
models permit estimation of a portfolio’s aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks and portfolio assets. One key element of the VaR model is that it reflects risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or
hedging activities. However, VaR risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology’s limitations, which include but are not limited to: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the
distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a VaR model; VaR using a one-day time
horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for VaR estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under
market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the VaR; and published VaR results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. A small proportion of market risk generated by
trading positions is not included in VaR. The modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies on approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different results from those produced using more precise
measures. VaR is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. The Company is aware of these and other
limitations and, therefore, uses VaR as only one component in its risk management oversight process. As explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the
trading desk, division and Company levels.    The Company’s VaR
model evolves over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. The Company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of VaR methodologies and
assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. As part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the VaR model’s
ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. Additionally, the Company continues to evaluate enhancements to the VaR model to make it more responsive to more recent market conditions while maintaining a
longer-term perspective.    Since the reported VaR statistics are
estimates based on historical data, VaR should not be viewed as predictive of the Company’s future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that the Company’s actual losses
on a particular day will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days for a 95%/one-day VaR. VaR does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be
significantly greater than the VaR amount. 
  104
 




Table of Contents
VaR for 2011.    The table below presents VaR for the Company’s
Trading portfolio, on a year-end, annual average and annual high and low basis (see Table 1 below). The VaR that would result if the Company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as a higher confidence level for the VaR
statistic (99% rather than 95%) or a shorter historical time series of market data (one year rather than four years), are also disclosed (see Table 2 below).   
The Credit Portfolio VaR is disclosed as a separate category from the Primary Risk Categories. The Credit Portfolio VaR includes the mark-to-market
relationship lending exposures and associated hedges as well as counterparty credit valuation adjustments and related hedges. A key driver of the Credit Portfolio VaR in 2011 was the Company’s exposure to Monolines, principally MBIA. For
further information on the Company’s settlement with MBIA, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers” in Part
II, Item 7 herein.    Trading Risks. 
  The table below presents the Company’s 95%/one-day Trading VaR:
  




































Table 1: 95% VaR
  
95%/One-Day VaR for 2011
 
  
95%/One-Day VaR for 2010
 

 Market Risk Category
  
PeriodEnd
 
 
Average
 
 
High
 
  
Low
 
  
PeriodEnd
 
 
Average
 
 
High
 
  
Low
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Interest rate and credit spread
  
$
66
  
 
$
87
  
 
$
137
  
  
$
49
  
  
$
92
  
 
$
104
  
 
$
127
  
  
$
86
  

 Equity price
  
 
25
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
48
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
29
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
52
  
  
 
19
  

 Foreign exchange rate
  
 
18
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
27
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
20
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
50
  
  
 
9
  

 Commodity price
  
 
28
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
44
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
30
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
35
  
  
 
21
  

 Less: Diversification benefit(1)(2)
  
 
(67
) 
 
 
(63
) 
 
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
(66
) 
 
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  




 Primary Risk Categories
  
$
70
  
 
$
102
  
 
$
170
  
  
$
60
  
  
$
120
  
 
$
118
  
 
$
149
  
  
$
98
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  




 Credit Portfolio
  
 
52
  
 
 
97
  
 
 
124
  
  
 
49
  
  
 
74
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
79
  
  
 
54
  

 Less: Diversification benefit(1)(2)
  
 
(35
) 
 
 
(70
) 
 
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
(76
) 
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  




 Total Trading VaR
  
$
87
  
 
$
129
  
 
$
168
  
  
$
83
  
  
$
118
  
 
$
139
  
 
$
165
  
  
$
117
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  


(1)
Diversification benefit equals the difference between the total VaR and the sum of the component VaRs. This benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each
of the components occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each component. 


(2)
N/A—Not Applicable. The minimum and maximum VaR values for the total VaR and each of the component VaRs might have occurred on different days during the quarter
and therefore the diversification benefit is not an applicable measure.    The Company’s average VaR for the Primary Risk Categories for 2011 was $102 million compared with $118 million for 2010. Reduced risk taking in fixed income products was the primary driver of the
decrease. The reduction in period-end VaR from $120 million for 2010 to $70 million for 2011 more clearly demonstrates the reduced risk taking in fixed income products that occurred at the end of the third quarter of 2011 that continued through the
fourth quarter of 2011.    The average Credit Portfolio VaR for 2011
was $97 million compared with $67 million for 2010. The increase in the average VaR over the year was from increased counterparty exposure during 2011. A more meaningful comparison for the Credit Portfolio is between the period-end VaR for 2011 of
$52 million and the period-end VaR for 2010 of $74 million. This reduction reflects the settlement with MBIA in December of 2011.   
The average Total Trading VaR for 2011 was $129 million compared with $139 million for 2010. This reduction was driven by the reduced risk taking in the
Primary Risk Categories. The reduction in the period-end Total Trading VaR represents both the reduced risk taking in fixed income products as well as the settlement with MBIA. 
  105
 




Table of Contents
VaR Statistics under Varying Assumptions. 
  VaR statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of
differences in the breadth of products included in each firm’s VaR model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market risk factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the simulated
market conditions. These differences can result in materially different VaR estimates for similar portfolios. The impact varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the factor history is updated, and the confidence
level. As a result, VaR statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms.    Table 2 presents the VaR statistics that would result if the Company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations,
such as the reported confidence level (95% versus 99%) for the VaR statistic or a shorter historical time series (four-year versus one-year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations. The four-year VaR measure continues to reflect the high
market volatilities experienced through 2007 and 2008, while the one-year VaR is no longer affected by these phenomena.   




















 Table 2: 95% and 99% Average Trading VaR with Four-Year / One-Year Historical Time Series
  
95% Average One-Day VaR for2011
 
 
99% Average One-Day VaR for2011
 

 Market Risk Category
  
Four-Year RiskFactor History
 
 
One-Year RiskFactor History
 
 
Four-Year RiskFactor History
 
 
One-Year RiskFactor History
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Interest rate and credit spread
  
$
87
  
 
$
57
  
 
$
163
  
 
$
110
  

 Equity price
  
 
31
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
37
  

 Foreign exchange rate
  
 
17
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
26
  

 Commodity price
  
 
30
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
38
  

 Less: Diversification benefit(1)
  
 
(63
) 
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
(111
) 
 
 
(81
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Primary Risk Categories
  
$
102
  
 
$
74
  
 
$
179
  
 
$
130
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Credit Portfolio
  
 
97
  
 
 
58
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
127
  

 Less: Diversification benefit(1)
  
 
(70
) 
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
(124
) 
 
 
(80
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Trading VaR
  
$
129
  
 
$
91
  
 
$
249
  
 
$
177
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Diversification benefit equals the difference between the total VaR and the sum of the component VaRs. This benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each
of the components occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each component.   
Distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues for 2011. 
  One method of evaluating the reasonableness of the Company’s VaR model
as a measure of the Company’s potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the VaR with actual trading revenue. Assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day VaR, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed VaR during
the year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed VaR more than 21 times in a year, the adequacy of the VaR model could be questioned. Differences between recent market volatility and the historical market volatility used in the VaR
model may result in the number of days in which trading losses exceed VaR to be higher or lower than statistically expected. The Company evaluates the reasonableness of its VaR model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated
by the model with actual trading results for both the Company as well as individual business units. For days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% VaR statistic, the Company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the VaR model’s
accuracy relative to realized trading results.    In line with the
enhanced transparency of the Company’s traded market risk displayed in Tables 1 and 2, the distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues will be presented for both the Primary Risk Categories and the Total Trading populations. 
  106
 




Table of Contents
Primary Risk Categories. 
  As shown in Table 1, the Company’s average 95%/one-day Primary Risk
Categories VaR for 2011 was $102 million. The histogram below presents the distribution of the Company’s daily 95%/one-day Primary Risk Categories VaR for 2011. The most frequently occurring value was between $115 million and $130 million,
while for approximately 41% of the trading days during the year, the Primary Risk Categories VaR was less than $100 million, reflecting the reduction in risk at the end of the third quarter of 2011 that continued through the fourth quarter of 2011.
   


  107
 




Table of Contents
The histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue for the Company’s businesses
that comprise the Primary Risk Categories for 2011. This excludes the non-trading revenue of these businesses and the revenue associated with the Company’s own credit risk. During 2011, the Company’s businesses that comprise the Primary
Risk Categories experienced net trading losses on 49 days, 1 day of which was in excess of the 95%/one-day Primary Risk Categories VaR.   



  108
 




Table of Contents
Total Trading including the Primary Risk Categories and the Credit Portfolio. 
  As shown in Table 1, the Company’s average 95%/one-day Total Trading
VaR, which includes the Primary Risk Categories and the Credit Portfolio, for 2011 was $129 million. The histogram below presents the distribution of the Company’s daily 95%/one-day Total Trading VaR for 2011. The most frequently occurring
value was between $130 million and $145 million, while for approximately 70% of the trading days during 2011, the Total Trading VaR ranged between $115 million and $145 million.   



  109
 




Table of Contents
The histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue for the Company’s Trading
businesses for 2011. This excludes the non-trading revenue of these businesses and the revenue associated with the Company’s own credit risk. During 2011, the Company experienced net trading losses on 64 days, 4 days of which were in excess of
the 95%/one-day Trading VaR.    

   Non-Trading Risks.
   The Company believes that sensitivity analysis is an
appropriate representation of the Company’s non-trading risks. Reflected below is this analysis, which covers substantially all of the non-trading risk in the Company’s portfolio.    Counterparty Exposure Related to the Company’s Own Spread. 
  The credit spread risk relating to the Company’s own mark-to-market
derivative counterparty exposure corresponds to an increase in value of approximately $6 million and $8 million for each 1 basis point widening in the Company’s credit spread level for December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively.    Funding Liabilities. 
  The credit spread risk sensitivity of the Company’s mark-to-market
funding liabilities corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $12 million and $14 million for each 1 basis point widening in the Company’s credit spread level at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.

  110
 




Table of Contents
Interest Rate Risk Sensitivity on Income from Continuing Operations. 
  The Company measures the interest rate risk of certain assets and
liabilities by calculating the hypothetical sensitivity of net interest income to potential changes in the level of interest rates over the next twelve months. This sensitivity analysis includes positions that are mark-to-market as well as positions
that are accounted for on an accrual basis. For interest rate derivatives that are perfect economic hedges to non-mark-to-market assets or liabilities, the disclosed sensitivities include only the impact of the coupon accrual mismatch. This
treatment mitigates the effects caused by the measurement basis differences between the economic hedge and the corresponding hedged instrument.   
Given the currently low interest rate environment, the Company uses the following two interest rate scenarios to quantify the Company’s sensitivity:
instantaneous parallel shocks of 100 and 200 basis point increases to all points on all yield curves simultaneously.   
The hypothetical model does not assume any growth, change in business focus, asset pricing philosophy or asset/liability funding mix and does not capture
how the Company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. Furthermore, the model does not reflect the Company’s expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, nor the actual effect on income from
continuing operations before income taxes if such changes were to occur.    On December 31, 2011, the Company modified its methodology so that the incremental impact of coupon accrual (net of funding expense) is derived explicitly from the projected cash flows over the next
twelve months. This change provides improved accuracy over the previous method of using instantaneous shocks on mark-to-market positions to estimate the net effect of accrual and funding. The impact of this change on the December 31, 2011,
consolidated results is a reduction of $32 million in interest income sensitivity for a +100 basis point scenario, and a reduction of $64 million for a +200 basis point scenario.   




















  
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
+100 BasisPoints
 
 
+200 BasisPoints
 
 
+100 BasisPoints
 
 
+200 BasisPoints
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Impact on income from continuing operations before income taxes
 
$
600
  
 
$
1,080
  
 
$
560
  
 
$
1,084
  

 Impact on income from continuing operations before income taxes excluding Citi’s share of MSSB(1)
 
 
370
  
 
 
672
  
 
 
343
  
 
 
664
  
  


(1)
Reflects the exclusion of the portion of income from continuing operations before taxes associated with MSSB’s noncontrolling interest in the joint venture.
   Principal Investments. 
  The Company makes investments in both public and private companies. These
investments are predominantly equity positions with long investment horizons, the majority of which are for business facilitation purposes. The market risk related to these investments is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net
revenues associated with a 10% decline in investment values.   












 
  
10% Sensitivity
 

 Investments
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Investments related to Asset Management activities:
  



  




 Hedge fund investments
  
$
141
  
  
$
169
  

 Private equity and infrastructure funds
  
 
108
  
  
 
115
  

 Real estate funds
  
 
133
  
  
 
108
  

 Other investments:
  



  




 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.
  
 
144
  
  
 
179
  

 Other Company investments
  
 
297
  
  
 
344
  

  111
 




Table of Contents
Credit Risk. 
  Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty
or issuer does not meet its financial obligations. The Company incurs credit risk exposure to institutions and sophisticated investors through the Institutional Securities business segment. This risk may arise from a variety of business activities,
including, but not limited to, entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to the Company; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short- or
long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks,
securities firms and other financial counterparties. The Company incurs credit risk in traded securities and loan pools, whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans.
The Company incurs credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment lending to individual investors, including margin loans collateralized by securities, non-purpose loans predominantly collateralized by securities, and through
single-family residential prime mortgage loans in conforming, nonconforming or home equity lines of credit (“HELOC”) form.   
The Company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of its businesses generates unique credit risks, and the Credit Risk
Management Department establishes company-wide practices to evaluate, monitor and control credit risk exposure both within and across business segments. The Company employs a comprehensive and global Credit Limits Framework as one of the primary
tools used to evaluate and manage credit risk levels across the Company. The Credit Limits Framework is calibrated within the Company’s risk tolerance and includes single name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry and
product type. The Credit Risk Management Department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to
appropriate senior management. Credit risk exposure is managed by credit professionals and committees within the Credit Risk Management Department and through various risk committees, whose membership includes the Credit Risk Management Department.
The Credit Risk Management Department also works closely with the Market Risk Department and applicable business units to monitor risk exposures, including margin loans, mortgage loans, and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. 
  See Notes 8 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional
information about the Company’s financing receivables and lending commitments, respectively.    Analyzing Credit Risk.    Credit risk management takes place at the transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. In order to protect the Company from losses resulting from
these activities, the Credit Risk Management Department ensures lending transactions and derivative exposures are analyzed, that the creditworthiness of the Company’s counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure
is actively monitored and managed. The Credit Risk Management Department assigns obligor credit ratings to the Company’s counterparties and borrowers, which reflect an assessment of an obligor’s probability of default. Additionally, the
Credit Risk Management Department evaluates the relative position of the Company’s particular obligation in the borrower’s capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable) and other structural
elements of the particular transaction.    Risk
Mitigation.    The Company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and trading activities in multiple ways. At the transaction level, the Company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements
such as size, tenor, financial covenants, seniority and collateral. The Company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments that may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives.
Additionally, the Company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. In connection with its derivatives trading activities, the Company generally
enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to offset a counterparty’s rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or
liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. 
  112
 




Table of Contents
Institutional Securities Activities.    Corporate Lending.    In connection with certain of its Institutional Securities business
segment activities, the Company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected corporate clients. Such loans and lending commitments can generally be classified as either “relationship-driven” or
“event-driven”. These loans and lending commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the
borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the Company.   
“Relationship-driven” loans and lending commitments refer to loans and lending commitments used for general corporate purposes, working capital
and liquidity purposes. Commitments associated with “relationship-driven” activities may not be indicative of the Company’s actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the
commitment. The Company may hedge its exposures in connection with “relationship-driven” transactions, and commitments may be subject to conditions including financial covenants. The Company’s “relationship-driven” loans and
lending commitments typically consist of revolving lines of credit, letter of credit facilities and certain term loans. These loans are carried either at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings or amortized cost in the
consolidated statements of financial condition.   
“Event-driven” loans and lending commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client
merger, acquisition or recapitalization activities. Commitments associated with these “event-driven” activities may not be indicative of the Company’s actual funding requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction
being completed. In addition, the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the Company’s portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication or sales process. The “event-driven” loans are typically syndicated or
sold to third party institutional investors. The Company may have a custodial relationship with these institutional investors, such as, prime brokerage clients. The borrower’s ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms
and conditions, among other factors. The Company risk manages its exposures in connection with “event-driven” transactions through various means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging. The Company’s
“event-driven” loans and lending commitments typically consist of term loans and bridge loans. These loans are carried either at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings or amortized cost in the consolidated statements of
financial condition.    During 2011, the Company, in accordance with
its risk management practices, accounted for certain new “relationship-driven” and “event-driven” loans and lending commitments as held for investment. The Company may account for additional new loans and lending commitments as
held for investment or held for sale in the future. 
  113
 




Table of Contents
The tables below present the Company’s credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and lending
commitments at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The “total corporate lending exposure” column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. Lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide
funding to clients at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 for both “relationship-driven” and “event-driven” lending transactions. Since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they
do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements.    Corporate Lending Commitments and Funded Loans at December 31, 2011   
































  
 
Years to Maturity
 
 
TotalCorporateLendingExposure(2)
 
 
CorporateLendingExposure atCarrying Value
 
 
CorporateLendingCommitments(3)

 

 Credit Rating(1)
 
Less than 1
 
 
1-3
 
 
3-5
 
 
Over 5
 
 
 
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 AAA
 
$
779
  
 
$
385
  
 
$
90
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
1,254
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
1,254
  

 AA
 
 
3,878
  
 
 
1,660
  
 
 
4,433
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
10,036
  
 
 
905
  
 
 
9,131
  

 A
 
 
5,234
  
 
 
5,378
  
 
 
8,463
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
19,290
  
 
 
2,720
  
 
 
16,570
  

 BBB
 
 
4,532
  
 
 
6,538
  
 
 
17,539
  
 
 
226
  
 
 
28,835
  
 
 
4,146
  
 
 
24,689
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment grade
 
 
14,423
  
 
 
13,961
  
 
 
30,525
  
 
 
506
  
 
 
59,415
  
 
 
7,771
  
 
 
51,644
  

 Non-investment grade
 
 
2,451
  
 
 
5,276
  
 
 
13,272
  
 
 
2,460
  
 
 
23,459
  
 
 
7,808
  
 
 
15,651
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
16,874
  
 
$
19,237
  
 
$
43,797
  
 
$
2,966
  
 
$
82,874
  
 
$
15,579
  
 
$
67,295
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Credit Risk Management Department. 


(2)
Total corporate lending exposure represents the Company’s potential loss assuming the market price of funded loans and lending commitments was zero.



(3)
Amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the Company’s consolidated statements of
financial condition. For syndications led by the Company, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. For syndications
that the Company participates in and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the Company expects it will be allocated from the lead syndicate bank. 
  Corporate Lending Commitments and Funded Loans at
December 31, 2010   
































  
 
Years to Maturity
 
 
TotalCorporateLendingExposure(2)
 
 
CorporateLendingExposure atCarrying Value
 
 
CorporateLendingCommitments(3)

 

 Credit Rating(1)
 
Less than 1
 
 
1-3
 
 
3-5
 
 
Over 5
 
 
 
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 AAA
 
$
351
  
 
$
342
  
 
$
50
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
743
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
743
  

 AA
 
 
3,220
  
 
 
5,435
  
 
 
671
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
9,396
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
9,265
  

 A
 
 
2,889
  
 
 
9,030
  
 
 
3,017
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
14,970
  
 
 
1,292
  
 
 
13,678
  

 BBB
 
 
2,793
  
 
 
16,170
  
 
 
4,816
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
24,016
  
 
 
3,203
  
 
 
20,813
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment grade
 
 
9,253
  
 
 
30,977
  
 
 
8,554
  
 
 
341
  
 
 
49,125
  
 
 
4,626
  
 
 
44,499
  

 Non-investment grade
 
 
1,740
  
 
 
6,857
  
 
 
7,642
  
 
 
4,539
  
 
 
20,778
  
 
 
6,845
  
 
 
13,933
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
10,993
  
 
$
37,834
  
 
$
16,196
  
 
$
4,880
  
 
$
69,903
  
 
$
11,471
  
 
$
58,432
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Credit Risk Management Department. 


(2)
Total corporate lending exposure represents the Company’s potential loss assuming the market price of funded loans and lending commitments was zero.



(3)
Amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the Company’s consolidated statements of
financial condition. For syndications led by the Company, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. For syndications
that the Company participates in and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the Company expects it will be allocated from the lead syndicate bank. 
  114
 




Table of Contents
At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was
$7.8 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $7.8 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively. In connection with these corporate lending activities (which include corporate funded loans and
lending commitments), the Company had hedges (which include “single name,” “sector” and “index” hedges) with a notional amount of $35.8 billion and $21.0 billion related to the total corporate lending exposure of $82.9
billion and $69.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.    At December 31, 2011, the Company’s corporate lending exposure carried at fair value includes $15.2 billion of funded loans and $1.3 billion of lending commitments recorded in Financial
instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The Company’s corporate lending exposure accounted for as held for investment includes $1.7 billion of
funded loans recorded in Loans, with an allowance for loan losses of $6 million, and $8 billion of unfunded commitments with an allowance for credit losses of $17 million recorded in Other liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial
condition at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s corporate lending exposure carried at fair value includes $11.2 billion of funded loans and $0.5 billion of lending commitments recorded in Financial instruments
owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The Company’s corporate lending exposure accounted for as held for investment includes $750 million of funded loans
recorded in Loans with an allowance for loan losses of $0.4 million in the consolidated statements of financial condition at December 31, 2010. See Notes 8 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for information on corporate loans
and corporate lending commitments, respectively.   
“Event-Driven” Loans and Lending Commitments at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
  Included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above
at December 31, 2011 were “event-driven” exposure of $7.2 billion composed of funded loans of $3.0 billion and lending commitments of $4.2 billion. Included in the “event-driven” exposure at December 31, 2011 were $3.8
billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers. The maturity profile of the “event-driven” loans and lending commitments at December 31, 2011 was as follows: 55% will mature in less than 1 year, 9% will
mature within 1 to 3 years, 13% will mature within 3 to 5 years, and 23% will mature in over 5 years.    Included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above at December 31, 2010 were “event-driven” exposure of $5.4 billion composed of funded loans of $1.3 billion and
lending commitments of $4.1 billion. Included in the $5.4 billion of “event-driven” exposure at December 31, 2010 were $4.9 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed. The maturity
profile of the “event-driven” loans and lending commitments at December 31, 2010 was as follows: 11% will mature in less than 1 year, 21% will mature within 1 to 3 years, 26% will mature within 3 to 5 years, and 43% will mature in
over 5 years.    At December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010, $301 million and $646 million of the Company’s “event-driven” loans were on a non-accrual basis, respectively. These loans primarily are those the Company originated prior to the financial crisis in 2008 and was unable to sell
or syndicate. For loans carried at fair value that are on non-accrual status, interest income is recognized on a cash basis.   
Activity associated with the corporate “event-driven” lending exposure during 2011 was as follows (dollars in millions): 
 








 “Event-driven” lending exposures at December 31, 2010
  
$
 5,409
  

 Closed commitments
  
 
7,188
  

 Net reductions, primarily through syndication or sales
  
 
(5,368
) 

 Mark-to-market adjustments
  
 
(72
) 


  
  
  
 

 “Event-driven” lending exposures at December 31, 2011
  
$
7,157
  


  
  
  
 

  115
 




Table of Contents
Other Institutional Securities Lending Activities.    In addition to the
primary corporate lending activity described above, the Institutional Securities business segment engages in other lending activity. At December 31, 2011, $9.2 billion of funded loans carried at fair value were recorded in Financial instruments
owned in the consolidated statements of financial condition. These loans include corporate loans purchased in the secondary market, commercial and residential mortgage loans, and financing extended to equities and commodities customers. At
December 31, 2011, $2.2 billion of funded loans accounted for as held for investment are recorded in Loans with an allowance for loan losses of $8 million in the consolidated statements of financial condition. These loans are primarily
commercial asset-backed lending.    Derivative
Contracts.    In the normal course of business, the Company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. The Company uses these instruments for trading and hedging
purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. These instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific
terms at specified future dates. Many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities.    The Company incurs credit risk as a dealer in OTC derivatives. Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from
the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The Company’s exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets, net of cash collateral
received. The fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between market participants and is further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Future
changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the
consolidated statements of financial condition. In addition to measuring and managing credit exposures referenced to the current fair value of derivative instruments, the Company also measures and manages credit exposures referenced to potential
exposure. Potential exposure is an estimate of exposure, within a specified confidence level, that could be outstanding over time based on market movements.   
For credit exposure information on the Company’s credit derivative and other OTC derivative products, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial
statements.    Credit Derivatives.
  A credit derivative is a contract between a seller (guarantor) and buyer
(beneficiary) of protection against the risk of a credit event occurring on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity. The beneficiary pays a periodic premium (typically quarterly) over the life of the contract and is
protected for the period. If a credit event occurs, the guarantor is required to make payment to the beneficiary based on the terms of the credit derivative contract. Credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced
entity, failure to pay, obligation acceleration, repudiation and payment moratorium. Debt restructurings are also considered a credit event in some cases. In certain transactions referenced to a portfolio of referenced entities or asset-backed
securities, deductibles and caps may limit the guarantor’s obligations.    The Company trades in a variety of credit derivatives and may either purchase or write protection on a single name or portfolio of referenced entities. The Company is an active market maker in the credit
derivatives markets. As a market maker, the Company works to earn a bid-offer spread on client flow business and manage any residual credit or correlation risk on a portfolio basis. Further, the Company uses credit derivatives to manage its
exposure to residential and commercial mortgage loans and corporate lending exposures during the periods presented.    The Company actively monitors its counterparty credit risk related to credit derivatives. A majority of the Company’s counterparties are banks, broker-dealers, insurance and other financial
institutions. Contracts with these counterparties do not include ratings-based termination events but do include provisions related to 
  116
 




Table of Contents

counterparty rating downgrades, which may result in additional collateral being required by the Company. As with all derivative contracts, the Company considers counterparty credit risk in the
valuation of its positions and recognizes credit valuation adjustments as appropriate within Principal transactions—Trading. The Company’s exposure to Monolines was significantly reduced following a comprehensive settlement with MBIA on
December 13, 2011. For further information on the Company’s settlement with MBIA, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Significant
Items—Monoline Insurers” in Part II, Item 7 herein.   
The following table summarizes the key characteristics of the Company’s credit derivative portfolio by counterparty at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010. The fair values shown are before the application of any counterparty or cash collateral netting.   
























 
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Fair Values(1)
 
  
Notionals
 

 
  
Receivable
 
  
Payable
 
  
Net
 
  
Beneficiary
 
  
Guarantor
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Banks and securities firms
  
$
123,821
  
  
$
117,125
  
  
$
6,696
  
  
$
2,099,438
  
  
$
2,039,555
  

 Insurance and other financial institutions
  
 
13,467
  
  
 
13,334
  
  
 
133
  
  
 
326,633
  
  
 
386,720
  

 Monolines(2)
  
 
298
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
293
  
  
 
18,647
  
  
 
—  
  

 Non-financial entities
  
 
1,205
  
  
 
262
  
  
 
943
  
  
 
17,543
  
  
 
6,129
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
138,791
  
  
$
130,726
  
  
$
8,065
  
  
$
2,462,261
  
  
$
2,432,404
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The Company’s credit default swaps are classified in both Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Approximately 11% of receivable fair values and 7% of
payable fair values represent Level 3 amounts. 


(2)
Credit derivatives used to hedge the Company’s credit exposure to Monolines (including derivative counterparty exposure) are included in the table based on the
counterparties writing such hedges. None of these hedges are written by other Monolines.   
























 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Fair Values(1)
 
 
Notionals(2)
 

 
  
Receivable
 
  
Payable
 
  
Net
 
 
Beneficiary
 
  
Guarantor
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Banks and securities firms
  
$
96,551
  
  
$
86,574
  
  
$
9,977
  
 
$
2,037,326
  
  
$
2,032,824
  

 Insurance and other financial institutions
  
 
10,954
  
  
 
8,679
  
  
 
2,275
  
 
 
277,714
  
  
 
257,180
  

 Monolines
  
 
2,370
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,370
  
 
 
25,676
  
  
 
—  
  

 Non-financial entities
  
 
259
  
  
 
373
  
  
 
(114
) 
 
 
2,920
  
  
 
4,247
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
110,134
  
  
$
95,626
  
  
$
14,508
  
 
$
2,343,636
  
  
$
2,294,251
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The Company’s credit default swaps are classified in both Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Approximately 13% of receivable fair values and 8% of
payable fair values represent Level 3 amounts. 


(2)
Amounts do not include the effect of hedges of Monoline derivative counterparty exposure.    Securitizations.    The Company may extend short- or long-term funding to clients through
loans and lending commitments that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, commercial and industrial company loans, and secured lines of
revolving credit. Credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement or a decline in the underlying collateral value. See Note 7 to the
consolidated financial statements for information about the Company’s securitization activities.    Other.    In addition to the activities noted above, there are other credit risks managed by the Credit Risk Management Department and various business areas within the
Institutional Securities business segment. The Company incurs credit risk through margin and collateral transactions with clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. Certain risk
management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the Company’s prime brokerage and securitized product 
  117
 




Table of Contents

businesses are primarily monitored within those respective areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. In addition, a collateral management group
monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the Company’s collateralized transactions.
   Country Risk
Exposure.    Country risk exposure is the risk that events within a country, such as currency crises, regulatory changes and other political events, will adversely affect the ability of the sovereign government and/or
obligors within the country to honor their obligations to the Company. Country risk exposure is measured in accordance with the Company’s internal risk management standards and includes obligations from sovereign governments, corporations,
clearinghouses and financial institutions. The Company actively manages country risk exposure through a comprehensive risk management framework that combines credit and market fundamentals as well as scenario analysis, and allows the Company to
effectively identify, monitor and limit country risk. Country risk exposure before and after hedges are monitored and managed, with stress testing and scenario analysis conducted on a continuous basis, to identify exposure concentrations, wrong way
risk and the impact of idiosyncratic events. In addition, indirect exposures are captured and monitored through regular stress testing and counterparty, market and systemic vulnerability analysis. The Company reduces its country risk exposure
through the effect of risk mitigants, such as netting agreements with counterparties that permit the Company to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties, obtaining collateral from counterparties, and by hedging. 
  In addition to the Company’s country risk exposure, the Company
discloses its cross-border outstanding information in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)” in Part II, Item 8 herein. It is based on the Federal Financial Institutions Examination
Council’s (“FFIEC”) regulatory guidelines for reporting cross-border information and represents the amounts that the Company may not be able to obtain from a foreign country due to country-specific events, including unfavorable
economic and political conditions, economic and social instability, and changes in government policies.    There can be substantial differences between the Company’s country risk exposure and cross-border risk exposure. For instance, unlike the cross-border risk exposure, the Company’s country risk
exposure includes the effect of certain risk mitigants such as obtaining collateral from counterparties. In addition, the basis for determining the domicile of the country risk exposure is different from the basis for determining the cross-border
risk exposure. Cross-border risk exposure is reported based on the country of jurisdiction for the obligor or guarantor. Besides country of jurisdiction, the Company also considers factors such as physical location of operations or assets, location
and source of cash flows/revenues, and location of collateral (if applicable) in order to determine the basis for country risk exposure. Furthermore, cross-border risk exposure only incorporates CDS where protection is purchased while country risk
exposure incorporates CDS where protection is both purchased and sold. 
  118
 




Table of Contents
The Company’s sovereign exposures consist of financial instruments entered into with sovereign and
local governments. Its non-sovereign exposures comprise exposures to corporations and financial institutions. The following table shows the Company’s significant non-U.S. country risk exposure, except for select European countries (see
“Country Risk Exposure—Select European Countries” herein), at December 31, 2011.   
































 Country
 
NetInventory(1)
 
 
NetCounterpartyExposure(2)
 
 
FundedLending
 
 
UnfundedCommitments
 
 
ExposureBeforeHedges
 
 
Hedges(3)
 
 
NetExposure(4)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 United Kingdom:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
425
  
 
$
46
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
471
  
 
$
(194
) 
 
$
277
  

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
746
  
 
 
12,617
  
 
 
3,106
  
 
 
4,112
  
 
 
20,581
  
 
 
(3,414
) 
 
 
17,167
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total United Kingdom
 
$
1,171
  
 
$
12,663
  
 
$
3,106
  
 
$
4,112
  
 
$
21,052
  
 
$
(3,608
) 
 
$
17,444
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Brazil:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
3,901
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3,901
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3,901
  

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
154
  
 
 
2,173
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
375
  
 
 
2,900
  
 
 
(87
) 
 
 
2,813
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Brazil
 
$
4,055
  
 
$
2,173
  
 
$
198
  
 
$
375
  
 
$
6,801
  
 
$
(87
) 
 
$
6,714
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Germany:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
(459
) 
 
$
973
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
514
  
 
$
(1,350
) 
 
$
(836
) 

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
712
  
 
 
2,343
  
 
 
573
  
 
 
3,912
  
 
 
7,540
  
 
 
(2,948
) 
 
 
4,592
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Germany
 
$
253
  
 
$
3,316
  
 
$
573
  
 
$
3,912
  
 
$
8,054
  
 
$
(4,298
) 
 
$
3,756
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Australia:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
(253
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(253
) 
 
$
(20
) 
 
$
(273
) 

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
873
  
 
 
886
  
 
 
380
  
 
 
1,019
  
 
 
3,158
  
 
 
(398
) 
 
 
2,760
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Australia
 
$
620
  
 
$
886
  
 
$
380
  
 
$
1,019
  
 
$
2,905
  
 
$
(418
) 
 
$
2,487
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Canada:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
(555
) 
 
$
243
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(312
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(312
) 

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
609
  
 
 
897
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
1,378
  
 
 
3,325
  
 
 
(890
) 
 
 
2,435
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Canada
 
$
54
  
 
$
1,140
  
 
$
441
  
 
$
1,378
  
 
$
3,013
  
 
$
(890
) 
 
$
2,123
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Net inventory representing exposure to both long and short single name positions (i.e., bonds and equities at fair value and CDS based on notional amount assuming zero
recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable). 


(2)
Net counterparty exposure (i.e., repurchase transactions, securities lending and OTC derivatives) taking into consideration legally enforceable master netting
agreements and collateral. 


(3)
Represents CDS hedges on net counterparty exposure and funded lending. Based on the CDS notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or
payable. 


(4)
In addition, at December 31, 2011, the Company had exposure to these countries for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $4.1 billion.

  119
 




Table of Contents
Country Risk Exposure—Select European Countries.    In connection
with certain of its Institutional Securities business segment activities, the Company has country risk exposure to many foreign countries. During 2011, certain European countries, which include Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain (the
“European Peripherals”) and France, experienced varying degrees of credit deterioration due to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. The following table shows the Company’s country risk exposure to European Peripherals
and France at December 31, 2011. Such country risk exposure is measured in accordance with the Company’s internal risk management standards and includes obligations from sovereign and non-sovereigns, which includes governments,
corporations, clearinghouses and financial institutions.   




































 Country
 
NetInventory(1)
 
 
NetCounterpartyExposure(2)
 
 
FundedLending
 
 
UnfundedCommitments
 
 
CDSAdjustment(3)
 
 
ExposureBeforeHedges
 
 
Hedges(4)
 
 
NetExposure
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Greece:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
(8
) 
 
$
20
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
23
  
 
$
35
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
36
  

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
53
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
142
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
202
  
 
 
(78
) 
 
 
124
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Greece
 
$
45
  
 
$
27
  
 
$
142
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
23
  
 
$
237
  
 
$
(77
) 
 
$
160
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ireland:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
78
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
83
  
 
$
(2
) 
 
$
81
  

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
102
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
142
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Ireland
 
$
180
  
 
$
42
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
19
  
 
$
241
  
 
$
(18
) 
 
$
223
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Italy(6):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
(29
) 
 
$
4,202
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
412
  
 
$
4,585
  
 
$
(786
) 
 
$
3,799
  

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
197
  
 
 
689
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
363
  
 
 
179
  
 
 
1,683
  
 
 
(581
) 
 
 
1,102
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Italy(6)
 
$
168
  
 
$
4,891
  
 
$
255
  
 
$
363
  
 
$
591
  
 
$
6,268
  
 
$
(1,367
) 
 
$
4,901
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Spain:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
(366
) 
 
$
11
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
504
  
 
$
149
  
 
$
(37
) 
 
$
112
  

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
225
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
424
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
1,575
  
 
 
(297
) 
 
 
1,278
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Spain
 
$
(141
) 
 
$
408
  
 
$
311
  
 
$
424
  
 
$
722
  
 
$
1,724
  
 
$
(334
) 
 
$
1,390
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Portugal:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
(435
) 
 
$
97
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
23
  
 
$
(315
) 
 
$
(96
) 
 
$
(411
) 

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
7
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
126
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
(98
) 
 
 
172
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Portugal
 
$
(428
) 
 
$
187
  
 
$
126
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
70
  
 
$
(45
) 
 
$
(194
) 
 
$
(239
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Sovereigns
 
$
(760
) 
 
$
4,331
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
966
  
 
$
4,537
  
 
$
(920
) 
 
$
3,617
  

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
584
  
 
 
1,224
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
787
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
3,888
  
 
 
(1,070
) 
 
 
2,818
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total European Peripherals(5)(6)
 
$
(176
) 
 
$
5,555
  
 
$
834
  
 
$
787
  
 
$
1,425
  
 
$
8,425
  
 
$
(1,990
) 
 
$
6,435
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 France(5):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sovereigns
 
$
(1,796
) 
 
$
234
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
100
  
 
$
(1,462
) 
 
$
(228
) 
 
$
(1,690
) 

 Non-sovereigns
 
 
85
  
 
 
2,246
  
 
 
416
  
 
 
1,657
  
 
 
390
  
 
 
4,794
  
 
 
(1,390
) 
 
 
3,404
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total France(5)
 
$
(1,711
) 
 
$
2,480
  
 
$
416
  
 
$
1,657
  
 
$
490
  
 
$
3,332
  
 
$
(1,618
) 
 
$
1,714
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Net inventory representing exposure to both long and short single name positions (i.e., bonds and equities at fair value and CDS based on notional amount assuming zero
recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable). 


(2)
Net counterparty exposure (i.e., repurchase transactions, securities lending and OTC derivatives) taking into consideration legally enforceable master netting
agreements and collateral. 


(3)
CDS adjustment represents credit protection purchased from European peripheral banks on European peripheral sovereign and financial institution risk, or French banks on
French sovereign and financial institution risk. Based on the CDS notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable. 


(4)
Represents CDS hedges on net counterparty exposure and funded lending. Based on the CDS notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or
payable. 
  120
 




Table of Contents


(5)
In addition, at December 31, 2011, the Company had European Peripherals and French exposure for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $448 million and $15
million, respectively. 


(6)
On December 22, 2011, the Company executed certain derivative restructuring amendments which settled on January 3, 2012. Upon settlement of the amendments,
the exposure before hedges and net exposure for Italy decreased to $2,887 million and $1,522 million, respectively, and the exposure before hedges and net exposure for European Peripherals decreased to $5,044 million and $3,056 million,
respectively.    Industry
Exposure—Corporate Lending and OTC Derivative Products.    The Company also monitors its credit exposure to individual industries for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed
above and current exposure arising from the Company’s OTC derivative contracts.    The following tables show the Company’s credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and OTC derivative products by industry at December 31, 2011: 
 








 Industry
  
Corporate Lending Exposure
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Energy
  
$
9,202
  

 Utilities
  
 
8,952
  

 Funds, exchanges and other financial services(1)
  
 
7,140
  

 Chemicals, metals, mining and other materials
  
 
4,855
  

 Capital goods
  
 
4,692
  

 Food, beverage and tobacco
  
 
4,557
  

 Pharmaceuticals
  
 
4,270
  

 Media-related entities
  
 
4,212
  

 Telecommunications services
  
 
4,162
  

 Other
  
 
30,832
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
82,874
  


  
  
  
 




 Industry
  
OTC Derivative Products(2)
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Sovereign governments
  
$
5,625
  

 Banks
  
 
4,835
  

 Utilities
  
 
4,146
  

 Funds, exchanges and other financial services(1)
  
 
4,018
  

 Regional governments
  
 
3,031
  

 Other
  
 
13,394
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
35,049
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Includes mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses and diversified financial services. 


(2)
For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. 
  Global Wealth Management Group Activities. 
  The principal Global Wealth Management Group activities that result in
credit risk to the Company include margin lending, non-purpose lending, and residential mortgage lending.    Customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. The Company monitors required margin levels and
established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. Margin loans are extended on a demand basis and are not committed facilities. Factors
considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification and in the

  121
 




Table of Contents

case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies to reduce risk. Additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or
restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. Underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of
securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations.    The Company, through agreements with Citi relating to the formation of MSSB, retains certain credit risk for margin and non-purpose loans that are held at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in its capacity as
clearing broker for certain MSSB clients. The related loans are generally subject to the same oversight as similar margin and non-purpose loans held by the Company and its subsidiaries.    Non-purpose securities-based lending allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying
securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying margin stock or refinancing margin debt. Similar to margin lending, non-purpose securities-based loans are structured as demand facilities. This lending
activity has primarily been conducted through the Portfolio Loan Account (“PLA”) product platform. The Company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and,
pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. Factors considered in the review of non-purpose securities-based lending are amount of the
loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification, and, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential
hedging strategies. Underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an
evaluation of industry concentrations.    An additional non-purpose
lending platform, Tailored Lending (“TL”), provides lending to high net worth clients of MSSB, predominantly collateralized by securities. In addition to review of collateral security, credit assessment for the platform also incorporates a
comprehensive analysis of the obligor’s financial profile and overall creditworthiness. Consequently, TL advance rates are generally higher than those offered in the PLA platform and TL facilities may be offered on a committed basis.
   The Global Wealth Management Group business segment also
provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their small and medium-sized domestic businesses, with a suite of products that includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of
credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. Decisions to extend credit are based on an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and credit history. 
  With respect to first mortgages and second mortgages, including HELOC loans,
a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. The Company’s underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to
pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models (e.g., FICO scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. Loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property
appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. Historically, all mortgages were originated to be sold or securitized. Eligible conforming loans are currently held for sale, while most
non-conforming and HELOC loans are held for investment in the Company’s portfolio.   In certain instances, the Company enters into reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowed transactions to acquire securities to cover short positions, to settle other securities obligations and
to accommodate customers’ needs. The Company also engages in securities financing transactions for customers through margin lending. In addition, the Global Wealth Management Group business segment has employee loans that are granted primarily
in conjunction with a program established by the Company to retain and recruit certain employees. These loans, recorded in Receivables—Fees, interest and other in the consolidated statements of financial condition, are full

  122
 




Table of Contents

recourse, require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from four to 12 years. The Company establishes a reserve for loan amounts it does not consider recoverable from terminated
employees, which is recorded in Compensation and benefits expense.   
At December 31, 2011, Global Wealth Management Group had $11.4 billion of loans held for investment with an allowance for loan losses of $3 million
and $114 million of loans held for sale classified in Loans in the consolidated statements of financial condition.    See Notes 2, 6 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the Company’s allowance for loan losses, collateralized transactions and financing receivables,
respectively.    Operational Risk. 
  Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential
damage to a firm’s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events (e.g., fraud, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). The Company may incur operational risk
across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and control groups (e.g., information technology and trade processing). Legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of
operational risk and is discussed below under “Legal and Regulatory Risk.”    The Company has established an operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor and control risk across the Company. Effective operational risk management is essential to reducing the impact of
operational risk incidents and mitigating legal, regulatory and reputational risks. The framework is continually evolving to account for changes in the Company and in response to the changing regulatory and business environment. The Company has
implemented operational risk data and assessment systems to monitor and analyze internal and external operational risk events, business environment and internal control factors and perform scenario analysis. The collected data elements are
incorporated in the operational risk capital model. The model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements. Internal loss data and scenario analysis results are direct inputs to the capital model while external operational incidents,
business environment internal control factors and metrics are indirect inputs to the model.    Primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the control groups and the business managers therein. The business managers generally maintain processes and
controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. Each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. The operational risk coordinator regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports to
senior management within each business. Each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator and a forum for discussing operational risk matters with senior management. Oversight of operational risk is provided by regional risk
committees and senior management. In the event of a merger, joint venture, divestiture, reorganization, or creation of a new legal entity, a new product or a business activity, operational risks are considered, and any necessary changes in processes
or controls are implemented.    Enterprise Operational Risk and
Control (“EORC”) and the independent Operational Risk Department (“ORD”) work with the business segments and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive program for managing operational risk within
each area and across the Company globally. ORD is responsible for the design, ownership and independent validation of the operational risk framework, analysis of operational risk data and senior governance reporting. EORC is responsible for the
execution of the operational risk framework including, but not limited to facilitating, collecting and validating operational risk data.   
Business Continuity Management is responsible for identifying key risks and threats to the Company’s resiliency and planning to ensure a recovery
strategy and required resources are in place for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. Disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis,
and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed 
  123
 




Table of Contents

appropriate. The key components of the Company’s disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other
elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing.   
The Company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements.
Information security policies are designed to protect the Company’s information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. These policies cover a broad range of areas, including: application entitlements, data protection,
incident response, Internet and electronic communications, remote access and portable devices. The Company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computers and other assets from unauthorized access. 
  The Company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the
Company’s ongoing operations. These may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. The Company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of
means, including service level and other contractual agreements, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors’ performance. It is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. The Supplier Risk
Management program is responsible for the policies, procedures, organizations, governance and supporting technology to ensure adequate risk management controls between the Company and its third-party suppliers as it relates to information security,
disaster recoverability, and other key areas. The program ensures Company compliance with regulatory requirements.    Legal and Regulatory Risk.    Legal risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal and
regulatory requirements and standards. Legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty’s performance obligations will be unenforceable. The Company is generally subject to extensive regulation in
the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see also “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A). The Company has established procedures based
on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. The Company, principally through the Legal and Compliance Division, also has established
procedures that are designed to require that the Company’s policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. In connection with its businesses, the Company has and continuously develops various procedures
addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, money laundering,
privacy and recordkeeping. In addition, the Company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty’s performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity,
adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. The legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry
presents a continuing business challenge for the Company. 
  124
 




Table of Contents


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley: 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial
condition of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and changes in total equity for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
   We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.    In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.    We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission, and our report dated February 27, 2012 expresses an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.   




 /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

New York, New York

February 27, 2012

  125



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY 
 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition 
(dollars in millions, except share data)   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Assets
  



  




 Cash and due from banks ($511 and $297 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to
consolidated variable interest entities generally not available to the Company)
  
$
 13,165
  
  
$
7,341
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks
  
 
34,147
  
  
 
40,274
  

 Cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements
  
 
29,454
  
  
 
19,180
  

 Financial instruments owned, at fair value (approximately $140,749 and $129,969 were pledged to various parties at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively):
  



  




 U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
63,449
  
  
 
48,446
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
  
 
29,059
  
  
 
33,908
  

 Corporate and other debt ($3,007 and $3,816 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to
consolidated variable interest entities, generally not available to the Company)
  
 
68,923
  
  
 
88,154
  

 Corporate equities ($0 and $625 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to consolidated
variable interest entities, generally not available to the Company)
  
 
47,966
  
  
 
68,416
  

 Derivative and other contracts
  
 
48,064
  
  
 
51,292
  

 Investments ($1,666 and $1,873 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to consolidated
variable interest entities, generally not available to the Company)
  
 
8,195
  
  
 
9,752
  

 Physical commodities
  
 
9,697
  
  
 
6,778
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total financial instruments owned, at fair value
  
 
275,353
  
  
 
306,746
  

 Securities available for sale, at fair value
  
 
30,495
  
  
 
29,649
  

 Securities received as collateral, at fair value
  
 
11,651
  
  
 
16,537
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (includes $112 and $0 at fair value at December 31,
2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively)
  
 
130,155
  
  
 
148,253
  

 Securities borrowed
  
 
127,074
  
  
 
138,730
  

 Receivables:
  



  




 Customers
  
 
33,977
  
  
 
35,258
  

 Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations
  
 
5,248
  
  
 
9,102
  

 Fees, interest and other
  
 
9,444
  
  
 
9,790
  

 Loans (net of allowances of $17 and $82 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively)
  
 
15,369
  
  
 
10,576
  

 Other investments
  
 
4,832
  
  
 
5,412
  

 Premises, equipment and software costs (net of accumulated depreciation of $4,852 and $4,476 at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively) ($234 and $321 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to consolidated variable interest entities, generally not available to the Company)
  
 
6,457
  
  
 
6,154
  

 Goodwill
  
 
6,686
  
  
 
6,739
  

 Intangible assets (net of accumulated amortization of $910 and $605 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively) (includes $133 and $157 at fair value at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively)
  
 
4,285
  
  
 
4,667
  

 Other assets ($446 and $118 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to consolidated variable
interest entities, generally not available to the Company)
  
 
12,106
  
  
 
13,290
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
749,898
  
  
$
807,698
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 











 
126
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition—(Continued) 
(dollars in millions, except share data)   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Liabilities and Equity
  



 




 Deposits (includes $2,101 and $3,027 at fair value at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively)
  
$
 65,662
  
 
$
63,812
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings (includes $1,339 and $1,799 at fair value at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively)
  
 
2,843
  
 
 
3,256
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, at fair value:
  



 




 U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
19,630
  
 
 
27,948
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
  
 
17,141
  
 
 
22,250
  

 Corporate and other debt
  
 
8,410
  
 
 
10,918
  

 Corporate equities
  
 
24,497
  
 
 
19,838
  

 Derivative and other contracts
  
 
46,453
  
 
 
47,802
  

 Physical commodities
  
 
16
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, at fair value
  
 
116,147
  
 
 
128,756
  

 Obligation to return securities received as collateral, at fair value
  
 
15,394
  
 
 
21,163
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (includes $348 and $849 at fair value at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively )
  
 
104,800
  
 
 
147,598
  

 Securities loaned
  
 
30,462
  
 
 
29,094
  

 Other secured financings (includes $14,594 and $8,490 at fair value at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively) ($2,316 and $2,656 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to consolidated variable interest entities and are non-recourse to the Company)
  
 
20,719
  
 
 
10,453
  

 Payables:
  



 




 Customers
  
 
117,241
  
 
 
123,249
  

 Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations
  
 
4,082
  
 
 
3,363
  

 Interest and dividends
  
 
2,292
  
 
 
2,572
  

 Other liabilities and accrued expenses ($121 and $117 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related
to consolidated variable interest entities and are non-recourse to the Company)
  
 
15,944
  
 
 
16,518
  

 Long-term borrowings (includes $39,663 and $42,709 at fair value at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively)
  
 
184,234
  
 
 
192,457
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
679,820
  
 
 
742,291
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingent liabilities (see Note 13)
  



 




 Equity
  



 




 Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock
  
 
1,508
  
 
 
9,597
  

 Common stock, $0.01 par value;
  



 




 Shares authorized: 3,500,000,000 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010; Shares issued: 1,989,377,171 at
December 31, 2011 and 1,603,913,074 at December 31, 2010; Shares outstanding: 1,926,986,130 at December 31, 2011 and 1,512,022,095 at December 31, 2010
  
 
20
  
 
 
16
  

 Paid-in capital
  
 
22,836
  
 
 
13,521
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
40,341
  
 
 
38,603
  

 Employee stock trust
  
 
3,166
  
 
 
3,465
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(157
) 
 
 
(467
) 

 Common stock held in treasury, at cost, $0.01 par value; 62,391,041 shares at December 31, 2011 and 91,890,979 shares at
December 31, 2010
  
 
(2,499
) 
 
 
(4,059
) 

 Common stock issued to employee trust
  
 
(3,166
) 
 
 
(3,465
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity
  
 
62,049
  
 
 
57,211
  

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
8,029
  
 
 
8,196
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
  
 
70,078
  
 
 
65,407
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
749,898
  
 
$
807,698
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
 









 
127
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY 
 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
(dollars in millions, except share and per share data) 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Investment banking
  
$
 4,991
  
 
$
5,122
  
  
$
5,020
  

 Principal transactions:
  



 



  




 Trading
  
 
12,392
  
 
 
9,406
  
  
 
7,723
  

 Investments
  
 
573
  
 
 
1,825
  
  
 
(1,034
) 

 Commissions and fees
  
 
5,379
  
 
 
4,947
  
  
 
4,233
  

 Asset management, distribution and administration fees
  
 
8,502
  
 
 
7,919
  
  
 
5,841
  

 Other
  
 
209
  
 
 
1,271
  
  
 
707
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-interest revenues
  
 
32,046
  
 
 
30,490
  
  
 
22,490
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interest income
  
 
7,264
  
 
 
7,311
  
  
 
7,477
  

 Interest expense
  
 
6,907
  
 
 
6,414
  
  
 
6,687
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
 
357
  
 
 
897
  
  
 
790
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
 
32,403
  
 
 
31,387
  
  
 
23,280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Non-interest expenses:
  



 



  




 Compensation and benefits
  
 
16,403
  
 
 
15,923
  
  
 
14,331
  

 Occupancy and equipment
  
 
1,564
  
 
 
1,560
  
  
 
1,540
  

 Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees
  
 
1,652
  
 
 
1,431
  
  
 
1,190
  

 Information processing and communications
  
 
1,815
  
 
 
1,648
  
  
 
1,363
  

 Marketing and business development
  
 
602
  
 
 
576
  
  
 
500
  

 Professional services
  
 
1,803
  
 
 
1,818
  
  
 
1,577
  

 Other
  
 
2,450
  
 
 
2,200
  
  
 
1,649
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-interest expenses
  
 
26,289
  
 
 
25,156
  
  
 
22,150
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
6,114
  
 
 
6,231
  
  
 
1,130
  

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
1,418
  
 
 
754
  
  
 
(297
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
4,696
  
 
 
5,477
  
  
 
1,427
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations:
  



 



  




 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(175
) 
 
 
577
  
  
 
(114
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
(124
) 
 
 
352
  
  
 
(93
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
225
  
  
 
(21
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
 4,645
  
 
$
5,702
  
  
$
1,406
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
535
  
 
 
999
  
  
 
60
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
 4,110
  
 
$
4,703
  
  
$
1,346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders
  
$
 2,067
  
 
$
3,594
  
  
$
(907
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Amounts applicable to Morgan Stanley:
  



 



  




 Income from continuing operations
  
$
 4,161
  
 
$
4,478
  
  
$
1,383
  

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
225
  
  
 
(37
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
 4,110
  
 
$
4,703
  
  
$
1,346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share:
  



 



  




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
 1.28
  
 
$
2.49
  
  
$
(0.73
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.15
  
  
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share
  
$
 1.25
  
 
$
2.64
  
  
$
(0.77
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share:
  



 



  




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
 1.26
  
 
$
2.45
  
  
$
(0.73
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.18
  
  
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share
  
$
 1.23
  
 
$
2.63
  
  
$
(0.77
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Average common shares outstanding:
  



 



  




 Basic
  
 
1,654,708,640
  
 
 
1,361,670,938
  
  
 
1,185,414,871
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
 
1,675,271,669
  
 
 
1,411,268,971
  
  
 
1,185,414,871
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
 












 
128
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY 
 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
(dollars in millions)   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net income
  
$
4,645
  
  
$
5,702
  
 
$
1,406
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
  



  



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustments(1)
  
 
35
  
  
 
221
  
 
 
112
  

 Amortization of cash flow hedges(2)
  
 
7
  
  
 
9
  
 
 
13
  

 Net unrealized gain on Securities available for sale(3)
  
 
87
  
  
 
36
  
 
 
—  
  

 Pension, postretirement and other related adjustments(4)
  
 
251
  
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
(273
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  
$
5,025
  
  
$
5,948
  
 
$
1,258
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
535
  
  
 
999
  
 
 
60
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss) applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
70
  
  
 
153
  
 
 
(8
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
4,420
  
  
$
4,796
  
 
$
1,206
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Amounts are net of provision for (benefit from) income taxes of $86 million, $(222) million and $(335) million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



(2)
Amounts are net of provision for income taxes of $6 million, $6 million and $8 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 


(3)
Amounts are net of provision for income taxes of $63 million and $25 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. 


(4)
Amounts are net of provision for (benefit from) income taxes of $153 million, $(10) million and $(161) million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

     
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 









 
129
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(dollars in millions)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
4,645
  
 
$
5,702
  
 
$
1,406
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities:
  



 



 




 Deferred income taxes
  
 
413
  
 
 
(129
) 
 
 
(932
) 

 Loss on equity method investees
  
 
995
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
49
  

 Compensation payable in common stock and options
  
 
1,300
  
 
 
1,260
  
 
 
1,265
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
1,404
  
 
 
1,419
  
 
 
1,224
  

 Gain on business dispositions
  
 
(24
) 
 
 
(570
) 
 
 
(606
) 

 Gain on sale of stake in China International Capital Corporation Limited
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(668
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Gains on curtailments of pension and postretirement plans
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Gain on sale of securities available for sale
  
 
(143
) 
 
 
(102
) 
 
 
—  
  

 (Gain) loss on retirement of long-term debt
  
 
(155
) 
 
 
27
  
 
 
(491
) 

 Insurance reimbursement
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Loss on assets held for sale
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,190
  
 
 
—  
  

 Impairment charges and other-than-temporary impairment charges
  
 
159
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
823
  

 Changes in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements
  
 
(10,274
) 
 
 
4,532
  
 
 
211
  

 Financial instruments owned, net of financial instruments sold, not yet purchased
  
 
25,484
  
 
 
19,169
  
 
 
(26,130
) 

 Securities borrowed
  
 
11,656
  
 
 
28,771
  
 
 
(79,449
) 

 Securities loaned
  
 
1,368
  
 
 
2,848
  
 
 
11,666
  

 Receivables, loans and other assets
  
 
1,519
  
 
 
(9,568
) 
 
 
(2,445
) 

 Payables and other liabilities
  
 
(6,963
) 
 
 
697
  
 
 
769
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell
  
 
18,098
  
 
 
(5,045
) 
 
 
(20,499
) 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
 
(42,798
) 
 
 
(9,334
) 
 
 
67,188
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
  
 
6,684
  
 
 
40,307
  
 
 
(45,951
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Net proceeds from (payments for):
  



 



 




 Premises, equipment and software costs
  
 
(1,304
) 
 
 
(1,201
) 
 
 
(2,877
) 

 Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,042
) 
 
 
(2,160
) 

 Business dispositions, net of cash disposed
  
 
—  
  
 
 
840
  
 
 
565
  

 Sale of stake in China International Capital Corporation Limited
  
 
—  
  
 
 
989
  
 
 
—  
  

 Japanese securities joint venture with MUFG
  
 
(129
) 
 
 
247
  
 
 
—  
  

 Purchases of securities available for sale
  
 
(20,601
) 
 
 
(29,989
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Sales, maturities and redemptions of securities available for sale
  
 
19,998
  
 
 
999
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
  
 
(2,036
) 
 
 
(29,157
) 
 
 
(4,472
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Net proceeds from (payments for):
  



 



 




 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
  
 
(413
) 
 
 
878
  
 
 
(7,724
) 

 Distributions related to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(791
) 
 
 
(332
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Derivatives financing activities
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
(85
) 
 
 
(85
) 

 Other secured financings
  
 
1,867
  
 
 
(751
) 
 
 
(4,437
) 

 Deposits
  
 
1,850
  
 
 
1,597
  
 
 
10,860
  

 Net proceeds from:
  



 



 




 Excess tax benefits associated with stock-based awards
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
102
  

 Public offerings and other issuances of common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5,581
  
 
 
6,255
  

 Issuance of long-term borrowings
  
 
32,725
  
 
 
32,523
  
 
 
43,960
  

 Payments for:
  



 



 




 Long-term borrowings
  
 
(39,232
) 
 
 
(28,201
) 
 
 
(33,175
) 

 Series D Preferred Stock and Warrant
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,950
) 

 Redemption of junior subordinated debentures related to China Investment Corporation Ltd.
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,579
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchases of common stock for employee tax withholding
  
 
(317
) 
 
 
(317
) 
 
 
(50
) 

 Cash dividends
  
 
(834
) 
 
 
(1,156
) 
 
 
(1,732
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
(5,148
) 
 
 
4,163
  
 
 
3,024
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(314
) 
 
 
14
  
 
 
720
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of cash and cash equivalents related to variable interest entities
  
 
511
  
 
 
297
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(303
) 
 
 
15,624
  
 
 
(46,679
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of period
  
 
47,615
  
 
 
31,991
  
 
 
78,670
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, at end of period
  
$
47,312
  
 
$
47,615
  
 
$
31,991
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents include:
  



 



 




 Cash and due from banks
  
$
13,165
  
 
$
7,341
  
 
$
6,988
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks
  
 
34,147
  
 
 
40,274
  
 
 
25,003
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, at end of period
  
$
47,312
  
 
$
47,615
  
 
$
31,991
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW
INFORMATION  Cash payments for interest were $6,835 million, $5,891 million and $7,605 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 Cash payments for income taxes were $892 million, $1,091 million and $1,028 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
 











 
130
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY 
 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity 
(dollars in millions)   












































 
 
PreferredStock
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
Paid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
EmployeeStockTrust
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
CommonStockHeld inTreasuryat Cost
 
 
CommonStockIssued toEmployeeTrust
 
 
Non-controllingInterests
 
 
TotalEquity
 

 BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2008
 
$
19,168
  
 
$
12
  
 
$
459
  
 
$
36,154
  
 
$
4,312
  
 
$
(420
) 
 
$
(6,620
) 
 
$
(4,312
) 
 
$
703
  
 
$
49,456
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,346
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
1,406
  

 Dividends
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,310
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
(1,333
) 

 Shares issued under employee plans and related tax effects
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(248
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
631
  
 
 
248
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,116
  

 Repurchases of common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(50
) 

 Morgan Stanley public offerings of common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
6,209
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,212
  

 Series C Preferred Stock extinguished and exchanged for common stock
 
 
(503
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
705
  
 
 
(202
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Series D Preferred Stock and Warrant
 
 
(9,068
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(950
) 
 
 
(932
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,950
) 

 Gain on Morgan Stanley Smith Barney transaction
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,711
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,711
  

 Net change in cash flow hedges
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13
  

 Pension and postretirement adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(269
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(273
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
112
  

 Increase in noncontrolling interests related to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney transaction
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,825
  
 
 
4,825
  

 Other increases in noncontrolling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
535
  
 
 
535
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2009
 
 
9,597
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
8,619
  
 
 
35,056
  
 
 
4,064
  
 
 
(560
) 
 
 
(6,039
) 
 
 
(4,064
) 
 
 
6,092
  
 
 
52,780
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,703
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
999
  
 
 
5,702
  

 Dividends
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,156
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,156
) 

 Shares issued under employee plans and related tax effects
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,407
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(599
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,297
  
 
 
599
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
890
  

 Repurchases of common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(317
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(317
) 

 Net change in cash flow hedges
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9
  

 Pension and postretirement adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(20
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
221
  

 Gain on Japanese securities joint venture with MUFG
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
731
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
731
  

 Change in net unrealized gains on securities available for sale
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36
  

 Redemption of CIC equity units and issuance of common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
5,578
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,579
  

 Increase in noncontrolling interests related to Japanese securities joint venture with MUFG
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,130
  
 
 
1,130
  

 Other decreases in noncontrolling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(178
) 
 
 
(178
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2010
 
$
9,597
  
 
$
16
  
 
$
13,521
  
 
$
38,603
  
 
$
3,465
  
 
$
(467
) 
 
$
(4,059
) 
 
$
(3,465
) 
 
$
8,196
  
 
$
65,407
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 









 
131
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity—(Continued) 
(dollars in millions)   












































 
 
PreferredStock
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
Paid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
EmployeeStockTrust
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
CommonStockHeld inTreasuryat Cost
 
 
CommonStockIssued toEmployeeTrust
 
 
Non-controllingInterests
 
 
TotalEquity
 

 BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2010
 
$
9,597
  
 
$
16
  
 
$
13,521
  
 
$
38,603
  
 
$
3,465
  
 
$
(467
) 
 
$
(4,059
) 
 
$
(3,465
) 
 
$
8,196
  
 
$
65,407
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,110
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
535
  
 
 
4,645
  

 Dividends
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(646
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(646
) 

 Shares issued under employee plans and related tax effects
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(642
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(299
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,877
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,235
  

 Repurchases of common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(317
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(317
) 

 Net change in cash flow hedges
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7
  

 Pension, postretirement and other related adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
251
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
35
  

 Change in net unrealized gains on securities available for sale
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
87
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
87
  

 Other increase in equity method investments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
146
  

 MUFG stock conversion
 
 
(8,089
) 
 
 
4
  
 
 
9,811
  
 
 
(1,726
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other decreases in noncontrolling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(772
) 
 
 
(772
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2011
 
$
1,508
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
22,836
  
 
$
40,341
  
 
$
3,166
  
 
$
(157
) 
 
$
(2,499
) 
 
$
(3,166
) 
 
$
8,029
  
 
$
70,078
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

     
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 











 
132
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY 
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  1.    Introduction and Basis of Presentation.
   The Company.    Morgan
Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. Unless the
context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley” and the “Company” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.   
A summary of the activities of each of the Company’s business segments is as follows:    Institutional Securities provides capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on
mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and
commodities; and investment activities.   
Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the Company’s 51% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC
(“MSSB”) (see Note 3), provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services;
annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services and engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading
or investments in such securities.    Asset
Management provides a broad array of investment strategies that span the risk/return spectrum across geographies, asset classes and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across the institutional and intermediary channels as
well as high net worth clients (see “Discontinued Operations—Retail Asset Management Business” herein).   
Discontinued Operations.   
2011.    Saxon.    On October 24, 2011, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement to sell Saxon, a provider of servicing and subservicing of residential mortgage loans,
to Ocwen Financial Corporation. The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2012. The results of Saxon are reported as discontinued operations within the Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented.
   Other.    In the fourth quarter of
2011, the Company classified a real estate property management company as held for sale within the Asset Management business segment. The transaction closed during the first quarter of 2012. The results of operations are reported as discontinued
operations for all periods presented.    2010. 
  Retail Asset Management Business.    On
June 1, 2010, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of its retail asset management business (“Retail Asset Management”), including Van Kampen Investments, Inc., to Invesco Ltd. (“Invesco”). The Company received
$800 million in cash and approximately 30.9 million shares of Invesco stock upon the sale resulting in a cumulative after-tax gain of $710 million, of which $28 million and $570 million was recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The remaining
gain, representing tax basis benefits, was recorded in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. The results of Retail Asset Management are reported as discontinued operations within the Asset Management business segment for all periods presented
through the date of sale. The Company recorded the 30.9 million shares as securities available for sale and subsequently sold the shares in the fourth quarter of 2010, resulting in a realized pre-tax gain of approximately $102 million reported
within Other revenues in the consolidated statement of income for 2010. 
  133
 




Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Revel Entertainment Group, LLC.    On March 31, 2010, the Board of
Directors authorized a plan of disposal by sale for Revel Entertainment Group, LLC (“Revel”), a development stage enterprise and subsidiary of the Company that was primarily associated with a development property in Atlantic City, New
Jersey. On February 17, 2011, the Company completed the sale of Revel. The Company did not retain any stake or ongoing involvement. The sale price approximated the carrying value of Revel and, accordingly, the Company did not recognize any
pre-tax gain or loss in 2011 on the sale. Total assets of Revel included in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition at December 31, 2010 approximated $28 million. The results of Revel are reported as discontinued
operations within the Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented through the date of sale. Amounts for 2010 included losses of $1.2 billion in connection with such disposition. See Note 22 for additional information about an
income tax benefit related to Revel.    CityMortgage
Bank.    In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed the disposal of CityMortgage Bank (“CMB”), a Moscow-based mortgage bank. The results of CMB are reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented through the date of sale within the Institutional Securities business segment.    Other.    In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed a disposal of a real estate property within the Asset Management business segment. The results of operations are
reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale.    2009.   
MSCI Inc.    In May 2009, the Company divested all of its remaining ownership interest in MSCI Inc. (“MSCI”). The
results of MSCI are reported as discontinued operations through the date of sale within the Institutional Securities business segment.   
Crescent.    Discontinued operations in 2009 include operating results related to the disposition of Crescent Real Estate
Equities Limited Partnership (“Crescent”), a former real estate subsidiary of the Company. The Company completed the disposition of Crescent in the fourth quarter of 2009, whereby the Company transferred its ownership interest in Crescent
to Crescent’s primary creditor in exchange for full release of liability on the related loans. The results of Crescent are reported as discontinued operations within the Asset Management business segment. 
  Discover.    On June 30, 2007, the Company
completed the spin-off of its business segment Discover Financial Services (“DFS”) to its shareholders. On February 11, 2010, DFS paid the Company $775 million in complete satisfaction of its obligations to the Company regarding the
sharing of proceeds from a lawsuit against Visa and MasterCard. The payment was recorded as a gain in discontinued operations for 2010.   
Prior period amounts have been recast for discontinued operations. See Note 25 for additional information on discontinued operations. 
  Basis of Financial Information.    The
consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.”), which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding the valuations of
certain financial instruments, the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, compensation, deferred tax assets, the outcome of litigation and tax matters, and other matters that affect the consolidated financial statements and related
disclosures. The Company believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. 
  At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $5.6 billion in
Financial instruments owned—Corporate and other debt, $3.8 billion of physical commodities within Financial instruments owned—Physical 
 











 
134
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

commodities, and $9.5 billion of financing obligations within Other secured financing in the consolidated statements of financial condition in connection with certain physical
commodities swap transactions. Prior to June 30, 2011, the Company accounted for these types of transfers of assets as sales and purchases instead of financings. There was no impact on the Company’s results of operations in any period
presented as a result of this change. The Company did not restate the balances in connection with such transactions at December 31, 2010 as amounts did not materially affect the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition.
   Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
   Consolidation.    The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities in which the Company has a controlling financial interest, including certain variable interest entities (“VIE”) (see
Note 7). For consolidated subsidiaries that are less than wholly owned, the third-party holdings of equity interests are referred to as noncontrolling interests. The portion of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for such
subsidiaries is presented as Net income (loss) applicable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income, and the portion of the shareholders’ equity of such subsidiaries is presented as Noncontrolling interests in the
consolidated statements of financial condition and consolidated statements of changes in total equity.    For entities where (1) the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance its activities without additional support and (2) the equity holders bear the economic
residual risks and returns of the entity and have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly affect its economic performance, the Company consolidates those entities it controls either through a majority voting interest
or otherwise. For entities that do not meet these criteria, commonly known as VIEs, the Company consolidates those entities where the Company has the power to make the decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and
has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE, except for certain VIEs that are money market funds, investment companies or are entities qualifying for accounting purposes as
investment companies. Generally, the Company consolidates those entities when it absorbs a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns, or both, of the entities. 
  For investments in entities in which the Company does not have a controlling
financial interest but has significant influence over operating and financial decisions, the Company generally applies the equity method of accounting with net gains and losses recorded within Other revenues. Where the Company has elected to measure
certain eligible investments at fair value in accordance with the fair value option, net gains and losses are recorded within Principal transactions—Investments (see Note 4). 
  Equity and partnership interests held by entities qualifying for accounting
purposes as investment companies are carried at fair value.    The
Company’s significant regulated U.S. and international subsidiaries include Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (“MS&Co.”), Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (“MSIP”), Morgan
Stanley MUFG Securities, Co., Ltd. (“MSMS”), Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association.   
Income Statement Presentation.    The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of
products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. In connection with the delivery of the various products and services to clients, the
Company manages its revenues and related expenses in the aggregate. As such, when assessing the performance of its businesses, primarily in its Institutional Securities business segment, the Company considers its principal trading, investment
banking, commissions and fees and interest income, along with the associated interest expense, as one integrated activity. 
 









 
135
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Effective January 1, 2010, the Company reclassified dividend income associated with trading and
investing activities to Principal transactions—Trading or Principal transactions—Investments depending upon the business activity. Previously, these amounts were included in Interest and dividends on the consolidated statements of income.
These reclassifications were made in connection with the Company’s conversion to a financial holding company. Prior periods have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation.    2.    Significant Accounting Policies.    Revenue Recognition.   
Investment Banking.    Underwriting revenues and advisory fees from mergers, acquisitions and restructuring transactions are
recorded when services for the transactions are determined to be substantially completed, generally as set forth under the terms of the engagement. Transaction-related expenses, primarily consisting of legal, travel and other costs directly
associated with the transaction, are deferred and recognized in the same period as the related investment banking transaction revenues. Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses associated with advisory
transactions are recorded within Non-interest expenses.   
Commissions and fees.    Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter
(“OTC”) equity securities, services related to sales and trading activities, and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commission and fee revenues are recognized in the accounts on trade date. 
  Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.    Asset management, distribution and administration fees are recognized over the relevant contract period. Sales commissions paid by the Company in connection with the sale of certain classes of shares of its open-end
mutual fund products are accounted for as deferred commission assets. The Company periodically tests the deferred commission assets for recoverability based on cash flows expected to be received in future periods. In certain management fee
arrangements, the Company is entitled to receive performance-based fees (also referred to as incentive fees) when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. In such arrangements, performance
fee revenue is accrued (or reversed) quarterly based on measuring account/fund performance to date versus the performance benchmark stated in the investment management agreement. Performance-based fees are recorded within Principal
transactions—Investments or Asset management, distribution and administration fees depending on the nature of the arrangement. The amount of performance-based fee revenue at risk of reversing if fund performance falls below stated investment
management agreement benchmarks was approximately $179 million at December 31, 2011 and approximately $208 million at December 31, 2010.   
Principal Transactions.    See “Financial Instruments and Fair Value” below for principal transactions revenue
recognition discussions.    Financial Instruments and Fair Value.
   A significant portion of the Company’s financial
instruments is carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. A description of the Company’s policies regarding fair value measurement and its application to these financial instruments follows. 
  Financial Instruments Measured at Fair
Value.    All of the instruments within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, are measured at fair value, either through the fair value option election (discussed below) or as required
by other accounting guidance. These financial instruments primarily 
 











 
136
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

represent the Company’s trading and investment positions and include both cash and derivative products. In addition, debt securities classified as Securities available for sale are measured
at fair value in accordance with accounting guidance for certain investments in debt securities. Furthermore, Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral are measured at fair value as required by
other accounting guidance. Additionally, certain Deposits, certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings (structured notes), certain Other secured financings, certain Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and certain Long-term
borrowings (primarily structured notes) are measured at fair value through the fair value option election.    Gains and losses on all of these instruments carried at fair value are reflected in Principal transactions—Trading revenues, Principal transactions—Investments revenues or Investment banking
revenues in the consolidated statements of income, except for Securities available for sale (see “Securities Available for Sale” section herein and Note 5) and derivatives accounted for as hedges (see “Hedge Accounting” section
herein and Note 12). Interest income and expense are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument and related market conventions. When interest is included as a component of
the instruments’ fair value, interest is included within Principal transactions—Trading revenues or Principal transactions—Investments revenues. Otherwise, it is included within Interest income or
Interest expense. Dividend income is recorded in Principal transactions—Trading revenues or Principal transactions—Investments revenues depending on the business activity. The fair value of OTC financial instruments, including
derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities, is presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. Additionally, the Company nets the fair value of
cash collateral paid or received against the fair value amounts recognized for net derivative positions executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement.    Fair Value Option.    The fair value option permits the irrevocable fair value option election on an
instrument-by-instrument basis at initial recognition of an asset or liability or upon an event that gives rise to a new basis of accounting for that instrument. The Company applies the fair value option for eligible instruments, including certain
securities purchased under agreements to resell, certain loans and lending commitments, certain equity method investments, certain securities sold under agreements to repurchase, certain structured notes, certain time deposits and certain other
secured financings.    Fair Value Measurement—Definition and
Hierarchy.    Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date.    In determining fair value, the Company uses
various valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used
when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the
Company’s assumptions about the assumptions other market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on
the observability of inputs as follows:   


 
•
 
 Level 1—Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access.
Valuation adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these products does not entail a significant
degree of judgment.   


 
•
 
 Level 2—Valuations based on one or more quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either
directly or indirectly. 
 









 
137
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


 
•
 
 Level 3—Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. 
  The availability of observable inputs can vary from product to product and is
affected by a wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, the liquidity of markets and other characteristics particular to the product. To the extent
that valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is
greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.    The Company considers prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and
inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 4). In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead
to declines in the valuation of many instruments.    In certain
cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for disclosure purposes, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls in
its entirety is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.   
Valuation Techniques.    Many cash instruments and OTC derivative contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the
marketplace. Bid prices reflect the highest price that a party is willing to pay for an asset. Ask prices represent the lowest price that a party is willing to accept for an asset. For financial instruments whose inputs are based on bid-ask prices,
the Company does not require that the fair value estimate always be a predetermined point in the bid-ask range. The Company’s policy is to allow for mid-market pricing and adjusting to the point within the bid-ask range that meets the
Company’s best estimate of fair value. For offsetting positions in the same financial instrument, the same price within the bid-ask spread is used to measure both the long and short positions. 
  Fair value for many cash instruments and OTC derivative contracts is derived
using pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms (including maturity) as well as multiple inputs, including, where applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate yield curves, credit curves, correlation,
creditworthiness of the counterparty, creditworthiness of the Company, option volatility and currency rates. Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors such as liquidity risk (bid-ask adjustments), credit
quality, model uncertainty and concentration risk. Adjustments for liquidity risk adjust model-derived mid-market levels of Level 2 and Level 3 financial instruments for the bid-mid or mid-ask spread required to properly reflect the exit price of a
risk position. Bid-mid and mid-ask spreads are marked to levels observed in trade activity, broker quotes or other external third-party data. Where these spreads are unobservable for the particular position in question, spreads are derived from
observable levels of similar positions. The Company applies credit-related valuation adjustments to its short-term and long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes) for which the fair value option was elected and to OTC derivatives. The Company
considers the impact of changes in its own credit spreads based upon observations of the Company’s secondary bond market spreads when measuring the fair value for short-term and long-term borrowings. For OTC derivatives, the impact of changes
in both the Company’s and the counterparty’s credit standing is considered when measuring fair value. In determining the expected exposure, the Company simulates the distribution of the future exposure to a counterparty, then applies
market-based default probabilities to the future exposure, leveraging external third-party credit default swap (“CDS”) spread data. Where CDS spread data are unavailable for a specific

 











 
138
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

counterparty, bond market spreads, CDS spread data based on the counterparty’s credit rating or CDS spread data that reference a comparable counterparty may be utilized. The Company also
considers collateral held and legally enforceable master netting agreements that mitigate the Company’s exposure to each counterparty. Adjustments for model uncertainty are taken for positions whose underlying models are reliant on significant
inputs that are neither directly nor indirectly observable, hence requiring reliance on established theoretical concepts in their derivation. These adjustments are derived by making assessments of the possible degree of variability using statistical
approaches and market-based information where possible. The Company generally subjects all valuations and models to a review process initially and on a periodic basis thereafter. The Company may apply a concentration adjustment to certain of its OTC
derivatives portfolios to reflect the additional cost of closing out a particularly large risk exposure. Where possible, these adjustments are based on observable market information but in many instances significant judgment
is required to estimate the costs of closing out concentrated risk exposures due to the lack of liquidity in the marketplace.   
Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant rather than an entity-specific measure. Therefore, even when
market assumptions are not readily available, the Company’s own assumptions are set to reflect those that the Company believes market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. 
  See Note 4 for a description of valuation techniques applied to the major
categories of financial instruments measured at fair value.   
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis.    Certain of the Company’s assets are measured at
fair value on a non-recurring basis. The Company incurs losses or gains for any adjustments of these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods. 
  For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis,
fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy for inputs as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable
inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.    For further information on financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis, see Note 4.    Hedge Accounting.   
The Company applies hedge accounting using various derivative financial instruments and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt to hedge interest rate and
foreign exchange risk arising from assets and liabilities not held at fair value as part of asset/liability and currency management. These financial instruments are included within Financial instruments owned—Derivative and other contracts and
Corporate and other debt or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased—Derivative and other contracts and Corporate and other debt in the consolidated statements of financial condition. 
  The Company’s hedges are designated and qualify for accounting purposes
as one of the following types of hedges: hedges of changes in fair value of assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (fair value hedges); and hedges of net investments in foreign operations whose functional currency is different from the
reporting currency of the parent company (net investment hedges).   
For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12. 
 









 
139
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash and cash
equivalents consist of Cash and due from banks and Interest bearing deposits with banks, which are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and readily convertible to known amounts of cash, and are held for
investment purposes. On June 30, 2011, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.’s (“MUFG”) outstanding Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series B Preferred Stock”) in the Company
with a face value of $7.8 billion (carrying value $8.1 billion) and a 10% dividend was converted into the Company’s common stock (see Note 15). As a result of the adjustment to the conversion ratio, the Company incurred a one-time,
non-cash negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion in its calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share during 2011. The Company’s significant non-cash activities in 2010 included assets acquired of approximately $0.5 billion and
assumed liabilities of approximately $0.2 billion in connection with business acquisitions and approximately $0.6 billion of equity securities received in connection with the sale of Retail Asset Management, which were subsequently sold (see Notes 1
and 25). The Company’s significant non-cash activities in 2009 included assets acquired of $11.0 billion and assumed liabilities, in connection with business acquisitions, of $3.2 billion. During 2009, the Company consolidated certain real
estate funds sponsored by the Company increasing assets by $600 million, liabilities of $18 million and Noncontrolling interests of $582 million. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company disposed of Crescent, deconsolidating $2,766 million of
assets and $2,947 million of liabilities (see Notes 1 and 25).   
Repurchase and Securities Lending Transactions.   
Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are
treated as collateralized financings. Securities purchased under agreements to resell (“reverse repurchase agreements”) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (“repurchase agreements”) are carried on the
consolidated statements of financial condition at the amounts of cash paid or received, plus accrued interest, except for certain repurchase agreements for which the Company has elected the fair value option (see Note 4). Where
appropriate, transactions with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis. Securities borrowed and securities loaned are recorded at the amount of cash collateral advanced or received. 
  Securitization Activities. 
  The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and
residential mortgage loans, corporate bonds and loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations and other types of financial assets (see Note 7). Such transfers of financial assets are generally accounted for as sales when the Company has
relinquished control over the transferred assets and does not consolidate the transferee. The gain or loss on sale of such financial assets depends, in part, on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer (generally at fair
value) and the sum of the proceeds and the fair value of the retained interests at the date of sale. Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are treated as secured financings (“failed sales”). 
  Premises, Equipment and Software Costs. 
  Premises and equipment consist of buildings, leasehold improvements,
furniture, fixtures, computer and communications equipment, power plants, tugs, barges, terminals, pipelines and software (externally purchased and developed for internal use). Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation
and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are provided by the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset. Estimated useful lives are generally as follows: buildings—39 years; furniture and fixtures—7 years;
computer and communications equipment—3 to 9 years; power plants—15 years; tugs and barges—15 years; and terminals and pipelines—3 to 25 years. Estimated useful lives for software costs are generally 3 to 5 years. 
 











 
140
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or, where
applicable, the remaining term of the lease, but generally not exceeding: 25 years for building structural improvements and 15 years for other improvements.   
Premises, equipment and software costs are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset’s carrying value
may not be fully recoverable in accordance with current accounting guidance.    Income Taxes.    Income tax expense (benefit) is provided for using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance (recorded in Other assets) and liabilities are determined
based upon the temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates.   
Earnings per Common Share.   
Basic earnings per common share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing income available to Morgan Stanley common shareholders by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding for the period. Income available to Morgan Stanley common shareholders represents net income applicable to Morgan Stanley reduced by preferred stock dividends and allocations of earnings to participating
securities. Common shares outstanding include common stock and vested restricted stock units (“RSUs”) where recipients have satisfied either the explicit vesting terms or retirement eligibility requirements. Diluted EPS reflects the
assumed conversion of all dilutive securities.    In December 2007,
the Company sold Equity Units that included contracts to purchase Company common stock to a wholly owned subsidiary of China Investment Corporation, Ltd. (“CIC”), (the “CIC Entity”), for approximately $5,579 million. Effective
October 13, 2008, the Company began calculating EPS in accordance with the accounting guidance for determining EPS for participating securities as a result of an adjustment to these Equity Units. The accounting guidance for participating
securities and the two-class method of calculating EPS addresses the computation of EPS by companies that have issued securities other than common stock that contractually entitle the holder to participate in dividends and earnings of the company
along with common shareholders according to a predetermined formula. The two-class method requires the Company to present EPS as if all of the earnings for the period are distributed to Morgan Stanley common shareholders and any participating
securities, regardless of whether any actual dividends or distributions are made. The amount allocated to the participating securities is based upon the contractual terms of their respective contract and is reflected as a reduction to Net income
applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders for the Company’s basic and diluted EPS calculations (see Note 16). The two-class method does not impact the Company’s actual net income applicable to Morgan Stanley or other financial
results. Unless contractually required by the terms of the participating securities, no losses are allocated to participating securities for purposes of the EPS calculation under the two-class method. 
  On July 1, 2010, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.
(“Moody’s”) announced that it was lowering the equity credit assigned to these Equity Units. The terms of the Equity Units permitted the Company to redeem the junior subordinated debentures underlying the Equity Units
upon the occurrence and continuation of such a change in equity credit (a “Rating Agency Event”). In response to this Rating Agency Event, the Company redeemed the junior subordinated debentures in August 2010, and the
redemption proceeds were subsequently used by the CIC Entity to settle its obligation under the purchase contracts. The settlement of the purchase contracts and delivery of 116,062,911 shares of Company common stock to the CIC Entity occurred in
August 2010. 
 









 
141
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Under current accounting guidance, unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable
rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of EPS pursuant to the two-class method described above. Share-based payment awards that pay dividend
equivalents subject to vesting are not deemed participating securities and are included in diluted shares outstanding (if dilutive) under the treasury stock method. 
  The Company has granted performance-based stock units (“PSU”) that
vest and convert to shares of common stock only if the Company satisfies predetermined performance and market goals. Since the issuance of the shares is contingent upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, the PSUs are included in diluted EPS
based on the number of shares (if any) that would be issuable if the end of the reporting period were the end of the contingency period.   
Stock-Based Compensation.   
The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with the accounting guidance for equity-based awards. This accounting guidance requires
measurement of compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The Company determines the fair value of RSUs (including RSUs with non-market
performance conditions) based on the grant date fair value of the Company’s common stock, measured as the volume-weighted average price on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model
and the single grant life method. Under the single grant life method, option awards with graded vesting are valued using a single weighted average expected option life. RSUs with market-based conditions are valued using a Monte Carlo valuation
model.    Compensation expense for stock-based payment awards is
recognized using the graded vesting attribution method. Compensation expense for awards with performance conditions is recognized based on the probable outcome of the performance condition at each reporting date. At the end of the contingency
period, the total compensation cost recognized will be the grant-date fair value of all units that actually vest based on the outcome of the performance conditions. Compensation expense for awards with market-based conditions is recognized
irrespective of the probability of the market condition being achieved and is not reversed if the market condition is not met.   
Until its discontinuation on June 1, 2009, the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) allowed employees to purchase
shares of the Company’s common stock at a 15% discount from market value. The Company expensed the 15% discount associated with the ESPP until its discontinuation. 
  The Company recognizes the expense for equity-based awards over the requisite
service period. For anticipated year-end equity awards that are granted to employees expected to be retirement-eligible under the award terms, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current year. As such, the
Company accrued the estimated cost of 2011 year-end awards granted to employees who were retirement eligible under the award terms over 2011 rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant (which occurred in January 2012). The Company believes
that this method of recognition for retirement-eligible employees is preferable because it better reflects the period over which the compensation is earned.   
Translation of Foreign Currencies.   
Assets and liabilities of operations having non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are translated at year-end rates of exchange, and amounts recognized in
the income statement are translated at the rate of exchange on the respective date of recognition for each amount. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax
effects, are reflected in Accumulated other 
 











 
142
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of Morgan Stanley Shareholders’ equity on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Gains or losses resulting from remeasurement
of foreign currency transactions are included in net income.   
Goodwill and Intangible Assets.   
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized and are reviewed annually (or more frequently when certain events or circumstances
exist) for impairment. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income. 
  Deferred Compensation Arrangements. 
  Rabbi Trust.    The Company maintains trusts,
commonly referred to as rabbi trusts (the “Rabbi Trusts”), in connection with certain deferred compensation plans. Assets of Rabbi Trusts are consolidated, and the value of the Company’s stock held in Rabbi Trusts is classified in
Morgan Stanley Shareholders’ equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The Company has included its obligations under certain deferred compensation plans in Employee stock trust. Shares that the Company has
issued to its Rabbi Trusts are recorded in Common stock issued to employee trust. Both Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to the employee trust are components of Morgan Stanley Shareholders’ equity. The Company recognizes the original
amount of deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date of grant—see Note 20) as the basis for recognition in Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to employee trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed
to employees are not recognized as the Company’s deferred compensation plans do not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of shares of the Company’s common stock. 
  Deferred Compensation Plans.    The Company also
maintains various deferred compensation plans for the benefit of certain employees that provide a return to the participating employees based upon the performance of various referenced investments. The Company often invests directly, as a principal,
in such referenced investments related to its obligations to perform under the deferred compensation plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Company are recorded primarily in Principal transactions—Investments. Expenses
associated with the related deferred compensation plans are recorded in Compensation and benefits.    Securities Available for Sale.    Available for sale (“AFS”) securities are reported at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial condition with unrealized gains and losses reported in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Interest and dividend income, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, is included in Interest income in the consolidated statements of income. Realized gains and losses on AFS
securities are reported in earnings (see Note 5). The Company utilizes the “first-in, first-out” method as the basis for determining the cost of AFS securities. 
  Other-than-temporary impairment.    AFS securities
in unrealized loss positions resulting from the current fair value of a security being less than amortized cost are analyzed as part of the Company’s ongoing assessment of other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”). 
  For AFS debt securities, the Company incurs a loss in the consolidated
statements of income for the OTTI if the Company has the intent to sell the security or it is more likely than not the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis as of the reporting date. For those debt
securities the Company does not expect to sell or expect to be required to sell, the Company must evaluate whether it expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. In the event of a credit loss, only the amount of

 









 
143
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

impairment associated with the credit loss is recognized in income. Unrealized losses relating to factors other than credit are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of
tax.    For AFS equity securities, the Company considers various
factors including the intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value in evaluating whether an OTTI exists. When the Company lacks that intent and ability, the
equity security is considered other-than-temporarily impaired and the security will be written down to fair value, with the full difference between fair value and amortized cost recognized in earnings. 
  Allowance for Loan Losses. 
  The allowance for loan losses estimates probable losses related to loans
individually identified for impairment in addition to the probable losses inherent in the held for investment loan portfolio.   
When a loan is deemed impaired or required to be specifically evaluated under regulatory requirements in certain regions, the impairment is measured based
on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate or as a practical expedient, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. If
the present value of the expected future cash flows (or alternatively, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral) is less than the recorded investment in the loan, then the Company recognizes an allowance and a
charge to the provision for loan losses within Other revenues.   
Generally, inherent losses in the portfolio for unimpaired loans are estimated using statistical analysis and judgment around the exposure at default, the
probability of default and the loss given default. Specific qualitative and environmental factors such as economic and business conditions, nature and volume of the portfolio and lending terms, and volume and severity of past due loans may also be
considered in the calculations.    The Company places loans on
nonaccrual status if principal or interest is past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest is in doubt unless the obligation is well secured and in the process of collection. A loan is considered past due when a
payment due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement has not been remitted by the borrower. Loans assigned a credit quality indicator of Substandard, Doubtful or Loss are identified as impaired and placed on nonaccrual status. For
descriptions of these modifiers, see Note 8.    Payments received on
nonaccrual loans held for investment are applied to principal if there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability of principal (i.e., cost recovery method). If collection of the principal of nonaccrual loans held for investment is not in doubt,
interest income is recognized on a cash basis. If neither principal nor interest collection is in doubt, loans are on accrual status and interest income is recognized using the effective interest method. Loans that are nonaccrual status may not be
restored to accrual status until all delinquent principal and/or interest has been brought current, after a reasonable period of performance, typically a minimum of six months. 
  The Company charges off a loan in the period that it is deemed uncollectible
and records a reduction in the allowance for loan losses and the balance of the loan.    The Company calculates the liability and related expense for the credit exposure related to commitments to fund loans that will be held for investment in a manner similar to outstanding loans disclosed
above. The analysis also incorporates a credit conversion factor, which is the expected utilization of the undrawn commitment. The liability is recorded in Other liabilities and accrued expenses on the consolidated statements of financial condition,
and the expense is recorded in Non-interest expenses in the consolidated statements of income. For more information regarding loan commitments, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, see Note 13. 
 











 
144
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Accounting Developments.    Subsequent Events.    In May 2009, the FASB issued accounting guidance to establish general
standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. The Company’s adoption of this guidance in the quarter ended
June 30, 2009 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.    Fair Value Measurements.    In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly
decreased and identifying transactions that are not orderly. The guidance provided additional application guidance in determining fair values when there is no active market or where the price inputs being used represent distressed sales. It
reaffirmed the objective of fair value measurement—to reflect how much an asset would be sold for in an orderly transaction (as opposed to a distressed or forced transaction) at the date of the financial statements under current market
conditions. Specifically, it reaffirmed the need to use judgment to ascertain if a formerly active market has become inactive and to determine fair values when markets have become inactive. The adoption of the guidance in the second quarter of
2009 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.    Transfers of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.    In June 2009, the FASB issued accounting guidance that
changed the way entities account for securitizations and special purpose entities (“SPE”). The accounting guidance amended the accounting for transfers of financial assets and required additional disclosures about transfers of financial
assets, including securitization transactions, and where entities have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. This guidance eliminated the concept of a Qualified Special Purpose Entity (“QSPE”) and
changed the requirements for derecognizing financial assets.    The
accounting guidance also amended the accounting for consolidation and changed how a reporting entity determines when a VIE that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The
determination of whether a reporting entity is required to consolidate a VIE is based on, among other things, the other entity’s purpose and design and the reporting entity’s ability to direct the activities of the other entity that most
significantly impact the other entity’s economic performance. In February 2010, the FASB finalized a deferral of these accounting changes, effective January 1, 2010, for certain interests in money market funds, in investment companies or
in entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies (the “Deferral”). The Company will continue to analyze consolidation under other existing authoritative guidance for entities subject to the Deferral. The adoption of
this accounting guidance on January 1, 2010 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition.   
Scope Exception Related to Embedded Credit Derivatives.    In March 2010, the FASB issued accounting guidance that changed the
accounting for credit derivatives embedded in beneficial interests in securitized financial assets. The guidance eliminated the scope exception for embedded credit derivatives unless they are created solely by subordination of one financial
instrument to another. Bifurcation and separate recognition may be required for certain beneficial interests that are currently not accounted for at fair value through earnings. The adoption of this accounting guidance on July 1, 2010 did not
have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.    Goodwill Impairment Test.    In December 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued accounting guidance that modified Step 1 of the goodwill
impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In
determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity shall consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. The qualitative factors are consistent with the

 









 
145
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

existing guidance. This guidance became effective for the Company on January 1, 2011. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.   
3.    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC. 
  Smith Barney.    On May 31, 2009, the
Company and Citigroup, Inc. (“Citi”) consummated the combination of the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group and the businesses of Citi’s Smith Barney in the U.S., Quilter Holdings Ltd. (“Quilter”) in the United
Kingdom (“U.K.”), and Smith Barney Australia (collectively, “Smith Barney”). In addition to the Company’s contribution of respective businesses to MSSB, the Company paid Citi $2,755 million in cash. The combined
businesses operate as Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. At December 31, 2011, pursuant to the terms of the amended contribution agreement, dated at May 29, 2009, certain businesses of Smith Barney and Morgan Stanley have been and will continue
to be contributed to MSSB (the “delayed contribution businesses”). Morgan Stanley and Citi each owned their delayed contribution businesses until they were transferred to MSSB and gains and losses from such businesses were allocated to the
Company’s and Citi’s respective share of MSSB’s gains and losses.    The Company owns 51% and Citi owns 49% of MSSB, with the Company having appointed four directors to the MSSB Board and Citi having appointed two directors. As part of the acquisition, the Company has the
option (i) following the third anniversary of the Closing Date to purchase a portion of Citi’s interest in MSSB representing 14% of the total outstanding MSSB interests, (ii) following the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date to
purchase a portion of Citi’s interest in MSSB representing an additional 15% of the total outstanding MSSB interests and (iii) following the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date to purchase the remainder of Citi’s interest in MSSB.
The Company may call all of Citi’s interest in MSSB upon a change in control of Citi. Citi may put all of its interest in MSSB to the Company upon a change in control of the Company or following the later of the sixth anniversary of the Closing
Date and the one-year anniversary of the Company’s exercise of the call described in clause (ii) above. The purchase price for the call and put rights described above is the fair market value of the purchased interests determined pursuant
to an appraisal process.    At May 31, 2009, the Company
included MSSB in its consolidated financial statements. The results of MSSB are included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment.   
The Company accounted for the transaction using the acquisition method of accounting. The fair value of the total consideration transferred to Citi
amounted to approximately $6,087 million and the fair value of Citi’s equity in MSSB was approximately $3,973 million. The acquisition method of accounting prescribes the full goodwill method even in business combinations in which the acquirer
holds less than 100% of the equity interests in the acquiree at acquisition date. Accordingly, the full fair value of Smith Barney was allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed to derive the goodwill amount of
approximately $5,208 million, which represents synergies of combining the two businesses.    The following table summarizes the allocation of the final purchase price to the net assets of Smith Barney at May 31, 2009 (dollars in millions). 
 








 Total fair value of consideration transferred
  
$
6,087
  

 Total fair value of noncontrolling interest
  
 
3,973
  


  
  
  
 

 Total fair value of Smith Barney(1)
  
 
10,060
  

 Total fair value of net assets acquired
  
 
4,852
  


  
  
  
 

 Acquisition-related goodwill(2)
  
$
5,208
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Total fair value of Smith Barney is inclusive of control premium. 
 











 
146
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


(2)
Goodwill is recorded within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. Approximately $963 million of goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.
   Condensed statement of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed.    The following table summarizes the final fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date.   








 
  
At May 31, 2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
  




 Cash and due from banks
  
$
920
  

 Financial instruments owned
  
 
33
  

 Receivables
  
 
1,667
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
4,480
  

 Other assets
  
 
881
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
$
7,981
  


  
  
  
 

 Liabilities
  




 Financial instrument sold, not yet purchased
  
$
11
  

 Long-term borrowings
  
 
2,320
  

 Other liabilities and accrued expenses
  
 
798
  


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed
  
$
3,129
  


  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
4,852
  


  
  
  
 
   In addition, the Company recorded a
receivable of approximately $1.1 billion relating to the fair value of the Smith Barney delayed contribution businesses at May 31, 2009 from Citi. Such amount is presented in the consolidated statements of financial condition as a
reduction from noncontrolling interests.    Amortizable intangible
assets included the following at May 31, 2009:   












 
  
At May 31, 2009
 
  
Estimated Useful Life
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 
  
(in years)
 

 Customer relationships
  
$
4,000
  
  
 
16
  

 Research
  
 
176
  
  
 
5
  

 Intangible lease asset
  
 
24
  
  
 
1-10
  


  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
$
4,200
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



   The Company also recorded an indefinite-lived
intangible asset of approximately $280 million related to the Smith Barney trade name.    Citi Managed Futures.    Citi contributed its managed futures business and certain related proprietary trading positions to MSSB on July 31, 2009 (“Citi Managed
Futures”). The Company paid Citi approximately $300 million in cash in connection with this transfer. At July 31, 2009, Citi Managed Futures was wholly-owned and consolidated by MSSB, of which the Company owns 51% and Citi owns 49%.
   The Company accounted for this transaction using the acquisition
method of accounting. The fair value of the total consideration transferred to Citi was approximately $300 million and the increase in fair value of Citi’s equity in MSSB was approximately $289 million. The acquisition method of accounting
prescribes the full goodwill method even in business combinations in which the acquirer holds less than 100% of the equity  interests in the
acquiree at acquisition date. Accordingly, the full fair value of Citi Managed Futures was 
 









 
147
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

allocated to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed to derive the goodwill amount of approximately $136 million, which represents business synergies of combining the Citi
Managed Futures business with MSSB.    The following table
summarizes the final allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of Citi Managed Futures at July 31, 2009 (dollars in millions).   








 Total fair value of consideration transferred
  
$
300
  

 Total fair value of noncontrolling interest
  
 
289
  


  
  
  
 

 Total fair value of Citi Managed Futures
  
 
589
  

 Total fair value of net assets acquired
  
 
453
  


  
  
  
 

 Acquisition-related goodwill(1)
  
$
136
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Goodwill is recorded within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. Approximately $4 million of goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.
   Condensed statement of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed.    The following table summarizes the final fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date.   








 
  
At July 31, 2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
  




 Financial instruments owned
  
$
83
  

 Receivables
  
 
86
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
275
  

 Other assets
  
 
11
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
$
455
  


  
  
  
 

 Liabilities
  




 Other liabilities and accrued expenses
  
$
2
  


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed
  
$
2
  


  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
453
  


  
  
  
 
   At July 31, 2009, amortizable intangible
assets in the amount of $275 million primarily related to management contracts with an estimated useful life of five to nine years. 
 











 
148
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Pro forma condensed combined financial information (unaudited). 
  The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information
presents the results of operations of the Company as they may have appeared if the closing of MSSB and Citi Managed Futures had been completed on January 1, 2009 (dollars in millions, except share data). 
 








 
  
2009
 

 
  
(unaudited)
 

 Net revenues
  
$
26,086
  

 Total non-interest expenses
  
 
24,600
  


  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
1,486
  

 Benefit from income taxes
  
 
(228
) 


  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
1,714
  

 Discontinued operations:
  




 Loss from discontinued operations
  
 
(114
) 

 Benefit from income taxes
  
 
(93
) 


  
  
  
 

 Net loss from discontinued operations
  
 
(21
) 


  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
1,693
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
234
  


  
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
1,459
  


  
  
  
 

 Loss applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders
  
$
(794
) 


  
  
  
 

 Loss per basic common share:
  




 Loss from continuing operations
  
$
(0.63
) 

 Net loss from discontinued operations
  
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 

 Loss per basic common share
  
$
(0.67
) 


  
  
  
 

 Loss per diluted common share:
  




 Loss from continuing operations
  
$
(0.63
) 

 Net loss from discontinued operations
  
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 

 Loss per diluted common share
  
$
(0.67
) 


  
  
  
 
   The unaudited pro forma condensed combined
financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the actual financial results of the Company had the closing of Smith Barney and Citi Managed Futures been completed on January 1, 2009, nor is it indicative
of the results of operations in future periods. Included in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information for 2009 were pro forma adjustments to reflect the results of operations of Smith Barney and Citi Managed Futures as well as the
impact of amortizing certain purchase accounting adjustments such as amortizable intangible assets. The pro forma condensed financial information does not indicate the impact of possible business model changes nor does it consider any potential
impacts of market conditions, expense efficiencies or other factors.    4.    Fair Value Disclosures.    Fair Value Measurements.    A description of the valuation techniques applied to the Company’s major categories of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis follows. 
 









 
149
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Financial Instruments Owned and Financial Instruments Sold, Not Yet Purchased. 
  U.S. Government and Agency Securities. 
 


 
•
 
 U.S. Treasury Securities.    U.S. Treasury securities are valued using quoted market prices. Valuation adjustments are not
applied. Accordingly, U.S. Treasury securities are generally categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Agency Securities.    U.S. agency securities are composed of three main categories consisting of agency-issued debt,
agency mortgage pass-through pool securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. Non-callable agency-issued debt securities are generally valued using quoted market prices. Callable agency-issued debt securities are valued by benchmarking
model-derived prices to quoted market prices and trade data for identical or comparable securities. The fair value of agency mortgage pass-through pool securities is model-driven based on spreads of the comparable To-be-announced
(“TBA”) security. Collateralized mortgage obligations are valued using quoted market prices and trade data adjusted by subsequent changes in related indices for identical or comparable securities. Actively traded non-callable agency-issued
debt securities are generally categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Callable agency-issued debt securities, agency mortgage pass-through pool securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are generally categorized in Level 2 of
the fair value hierarchy.   
Other Sovereign Government Obligations.   


 
•
 
 Foreign sovereign government obligations are valued using quoted prices in active markets when available. To the extent quoted prices are not
available, fair value is determined based on a valuation model that has as inputs interest rate yield curves, cross-currency basis index spreads, and country credit spreads for structures similar to the bond in terms of issuer, maturity and
seniority. These bonds are generally categorized in Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.   
Corporate and Other Debt.   


 
•
 
 State and Municipal Securities.    The fair value of state and municipal securities is determined using recently executed
transactions, market price quotations and pricing models that factor in, where applicable, interest rates, bond or credit default swap spreads and volatility. These bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
  


 
•
 
 Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (“RMBS”), Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (“CMBS”) and other Asset-Backed
Securities (“ABS”).    RMBS, CMBS and other ABS may be valued based on price or spread data obtained from observed transactions or independent external parties such as vendors or brokers. When position-specific
external price data are not observable, the fair value determination may require benchmarking to similar instruments and/or analyzing expected credit losses, default and recovery rates. In evaluating the fair value of each security, the Company
considers security collateral-specific attributes, including payment priority, credit enhancement levels, type of collateral, delinquency rates and loss severity. In addition, for RMBS borrowers, Fair Isaac Corporation (“FICO”) scores and
the level of documentation for the loan are also considered. Market standard models, such as Intex, Trepp or others, may be deployed to model the specific collateral composition and cash flow structure of each transaction. Key inputs to these models
are market spreads, forecasted credit losses, default and prepayment rates for each asset category. Valuation levels of RMBS and CMBS indices are also used as an additional data point for benchmarking purposes or to price outright index positions.

 











 
150
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
RMBS, CMBS and other ABS are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value
hierarchy. If external prices or significant spread inputs are unobservable or if the comparability assessment involves significant subjectivity related to property type differences, cash flows, performance and other inputs, then RMBS, CMBS and
other ABS are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.   


 
•
 
 Corporate Bonds.    The fair value of corporate bonds is determined using recently executed transactions, market price
quotations (where observable), bond spreads or credit default swap spreads obtained from independent external parties such as vendors and brokers adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments. The spread data used are for
the same maturity as the bond. If the spread data do not reference the issuer, then data that reference a comparable issuer are used. When position-specific external price data are not observable, fair value is determined based on either
benchmarking to similar instruments or cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads and recovery rates as significant inputs. Corporate bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in
instances where prices, spreads or any of the other aforementioned key inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
 


 
•
 
 Collateralized Debt Obligations (“CDO”).    The Company holds cash CDOs that typically reference a tranche of an
underlying synthetic portfolio of single name credit default swaps. The collateral is usually ABS or other corporate bonds. Credit correlation, a primary input used to determine the fair value of a cash CDO, is usually unobservable and derived using
a benchmarking technique. The other model inputs such as credit spreads, including collateral spreads, and interest rates are typically observable. CDOs are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy when the credit correlation input is
insignificant. In instances where the credit correlation input is deemed to be significant, these instruments are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.   


 
•
 
 Corporate Loans and Lending Commitments.    The fair value of corporate loans is determined using recently executed
transactions, market price quotations (where observable), implied yields from comparable debt, and market observable credit default swap spread levels obtained from independent external parties such as vendors and brokers adjusted for any basis
difference between cash and derivative instruments, along with proprietary valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable. The fair value of contingent corporate lending commitments is
determined by using executed transactions on comparable loans and the anticipated market price based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. The valuation of loans and lending commitments also takes into account fee income that is
considered an attribute of the contract. Corporate loans and lending commitments are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy except in instances where prices or significant spread inputs are unobservable, in which case they are
categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.   


 
•
 
 Mortgage Loans.    Mortgage loans are valued using observable prices based on transactional data or third party pricing for
identical or comparable instruments, when available. Where position-specific external prices are not observable, the Company estimates fair value based on benchmarking to prices and rates observed in the primary market for similar loan or borrower
types or based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved or
a methodology that utilizes the capital structure and credit spreads of recent comparable securitization transactions. Mortgage loans valued based on observable market data for identical or comparable instruments are categorized in Level 2 of the
fair value hierarchy. Where observable prices are not available, due to the subjectivity involved in the comparability assessment related to mortgage loan vintage, geographical concentration, prepayment speed and projected loss assumptions, mortgage
loans are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
 









 
151
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


 
•
 
 Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”).    The Company primarily holds investments in Student Loan Auction Rate
Securities (“SLARS”) and Municipal Auction Rate Securities (“MARS”) with interest rates that are reset through periodic auctions. SLARS are ABS backed by pools of student loans. MARS are municipal bonds often
wrapped by municipal bond insurance. ARS were historically traded and valued as floating rate notes, priced at par due to the auction mechanism. Beginning in fiscal 2008, uncertainties in the credit markets have resulted in auctions failing for
certain types of ARS. Once the auctions failed, ARS could no longer be valued using observations of auction market prices. Accordingly, the fair value of ARS is determined using independent external market data where available and an internally
developed methodology to discount for the lack of liquidity and non-performance risk.   
Inputs that impact the valuation of SLARS are independent external market data, the underlying collateral types, level of
seniority in the capital structure, amount of leverage in each structure, credit rating and liquidity considerations. Inputs that impact the valuation of MARS are independent external market data when available, the maximum rate,
quality of underlying issuers/insurers and evidence of issuer calls. ARS are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the valuation technique relies on observable external data. 
  Corporate Equities. 
 


 
•
 
 Exchange-Traded Equity Securities.    Exchange-traded equity securities are generally valued based on quoted prices from the
exchange. To the extent these securities are actively traded, valuation adjustments are not applied, and they are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy; otherwise, they are categorized in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
   Derivative and Other
Contracts.   


 
•
 
 Listed Derivative Contracts.    Listed derivatives that are actively traded are valued based on quoted prices from the
exchange and are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Listed derivatives that are not actively traded are valued using the same approaches as those applied to OTC derivatives; they are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair
value hierarchy.   


 
•
 
 OTC Derivative Contracts.    OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to interest rates,
foreign currencies, credit standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices.   
Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be either observed or modeled
using a series of techniques and model inputs from comparable benchmarks, including closed-form analytic formulas, such as the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, and simulation models or a combination thereof. Many pricing models do not entail
material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swaps, certain option contracts and certain
credit default swaps. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Company are widely accepted by the financial services industry. A substantial majority of OTC derivative products valued by the Company using
pricing models fall into this category and are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.    Other derivative products, including complex products that have become illiquid, require more judgment in the implementation of the valuation technique applied due to the complexity of the valuation
assumptions and the reduced observability of inputs. This includes certain types of interest rate derivatives with both volatility and correlation exposure and credit derivatives including mortgage-related

 











 
152
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

CDO securities, certain types of ABS credit default swaps, basket credit default swaps and CDO-squared positions (a CDO-squared position is a special purpose vehicle that issues interests, or
tranches, that are backed by tranches issued by other CDOs) where direct trading activity or quotes are unobservable. These instruments involve significant unobservable inputs and are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
  Derivative interests in complex mortgage-related CDOs and
ABS credit default swaps, for which observability of external price data is limited, are valued based on an evaluation of the market and model input parameters sourced from similar positions as indicated by primary and secondary market activity.
Each position is evaluated independently taking into consideration available comparable market levels as well as cash-synthetic basis, or the underlying collateral performance and pricing, behavior of the tranche under various cumulative loss and
prepayment scenarios, deal structures (e.g., non-amortizing reference obligations, call features, etc.) and liquidity. While these factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it
relates to specific positions nevertheless requires significant judgment.    For basket credit default swaps and CDO-squared positions, the correlation input between reference credits is unobservable for each specific swap or position and is benchmarked to standardized proxy
baskets for which correlation data are available. The other model inputs such as credit spread, interest rates and recovery rates are observable. In instances where the correlation input is deemed to be significant, these instruments are categorized
in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy; otherwise, these instruments are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.   
The Company trades various derivative structures with commodity underlyings. Depending on the type of structure, the model inputs
generally include interest rate yield curves, commodity underlier price curves, implied volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some cases, the implied correlation between these inputs. The fair value of these products is determined using
executed trades and broker and consensus data to provide values for the aforementioned inputs. Where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to observable commodities and data points, based on historic and/or implied observations, are employed
as a technique to estimate the model input values. Commodity derivatives are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy.   


 
•
 
 Collateralized Derivative Contracts.    In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company began using the overnight indexed swap
(“OIS”) curve as an input to value its collateralized interest rate derivative contracts. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of approximately $108 million in Principal transactions—Trading upon
application of the OIS curve to certain additional fixed income products within the Institutional Securities business segment. Previously, the Company discounted these contracts based on London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). At
December 31, 2011, substantially all of the Company’s collateralized derivative contracts were valued using the OIS curve.   
For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12. 
  Investments.   


 
•
 
 The Company’s investments include direct investments in equity securities as well as investments in private equity funds, real estate funds and
hedge funds, which include investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Direct investments are presented in the fair value hierarchy table as Principal investments and Other. Initially, the transaction price is
generally considered by the Company as the exit price and is the Company’s best estimate of fair value. 
 









 
153
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
After initial recognition, in determining the fair value of internally and externally
managed funds, the Company generally considers the net asset value of the fund provided by the fund manager to be the best estimate of fair value. For non-exchange-traded investments either held directly or held within internally managed funds, fair
value after initial recognition is based on an assessment of each underlying investment, considering rounds of financing and third-party transactions, discounted cash flow analyses and market-based information, including comparable company
transactions, trading multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors. Exchange-traded direct equity investments are generally valued based on quoted prices from the exchange.    Exchange-traded direct equity investments that are actively traded are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value
hierarchy. Non-exchange-traded direct equity investments and investments in private equity and real estate funds are generally categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Investments in hedge funds that are redeemable at the measurement date
or in the near future are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; otherwise, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.   
Physical Commodities.   


 
•
 
 The Company trades various physical commodities, including crude oil and refined products, natural gas, base and precious metals and agricultural
products. Fair value for physical commodities is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices. Physical commodities are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant
inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.    Securities Available for Sale.   


 
•
 
 Securities available for sale are composed of U.S. government and agency securities (e.g., U.S. Treasury securities, agency-issued debt, agency
mortgage pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations), Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”) student loan asset-backed securities and equity securities. Actively traded U.S. Treasury securities, non-callable
agency-issued debt securities and equity securities are generally categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Callable agency-issued debt securities, agency mortgage pass-through securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and FFELP
student loan asset-backed securities are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. For further information on securities available for sale, see Note 5.    Deposits.   


 
•
 
 Time Deposits.    The fair value of certificates of deposit is determined using third-party quotations. These deposits are
generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.    Commercial Paper and Other Short-term Borrowings/Long-term Borrowings.   


 
•
 
 Structured Notes.    The Company issues structured notes that have coupon or repayment terms linked to the performance of
debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. Fair value of structured notes is determined using valuation models for the derivative and debt portions of the notes. These models incorporate observable inputs referencing identical or
comparable securities, including prices that the notes are linked to, interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency, commodity or equity rates. Independent, external and traded prices for the notes are also considered. The impact of the
Company’s own credit spreads is also included based on the Company’s observed secondary bond market spreads. Most structured notes are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
 











 
154
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell, and Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase
  


 
•
 
 The fair value of a reverse repurchase agreement or repurchase agreement is computed using a standard cash flow discounting methodology. The
inputs to the valuation include contractual cash flows and collateral funding spreads, which are estimated using various benchmarks, interest rate yield curves and option volatilities. In instances where the unobservable
inputs are deemed significant, reverse repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy; otherwise, they are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
  The following fair value hierarchy tables present information about the
Company’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.   
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis at December 31, 2011. 
 
























 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
 
SignificantObservableInputs(Level
 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level
 3)
 
 
Counterpartyand CashCollateralNetting
 
 
Balance atDecember 31,2011
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
  



 



 



 



 




 Financial instruments owned:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
$
38,769
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
38,770
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
4,332
  
 
 
20,339
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,679
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
43,101
  
 
 
20,340
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
63,449
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
  
 
22,650
  
 
 
6,290
  
 
 
119
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,059
  

 Corporate and other debt:
  



 



 



 



 




 State and municipal securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,261
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,261
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,304
  
 
 
494
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,798
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,686
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,820
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
937
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
968
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
—  
  
 
 
25,873
  
 
 
675
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
26,548
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,711
  
 
 
980
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,691
  

 Loans and lending commitments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
14,854
  
 
 
9,590
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,444
  

 Other debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
8,265
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,393
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
56,891
  
 
 
12,032
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
68,923
  

 Corporate equities(1)
  
 
45,173
  
 
 
2,376
  
 
 
417
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
47,966
  

 Derivative and other contracts:
  



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
 
1,493
  
 
 
906,082
  
 
 
5,301
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
912,876
  

 Credit contracts
  
 
—  
  
 
 
123,689
  
 
 
15,102
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
138,791
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
—  
  
 
 
61,770
  
 
 
573
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
62,343
  

 Equity contracts
  
 
929
  
 
 
44,558
  
 
 
800
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
46,287
  

 Commodity contracts
  
 
6,356
  
 
 
31,246
  
 
 
2,176
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
39,778
  

 Other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
598
  

 Netting(2)
  
 
(7,596
) 
 
 
(1,045,912
) 
 
 
(11,837
) 
 
 
(87,264
) 
 
 
(1,152,609
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative and other contracts
  
 
1,182
  
 
 
121,725
  
 
 
12,421
  
 
 
(87,264
) 
 
 
48,064
  
 









 
155
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
























 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantObservableInputs(Level
 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level
 3)
 
  
Counterpartyand CashCollateralNetting
 
 
Balance atDecember 31,2011
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Investments:
  



  



  



  



 




 Private equity funds
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
1,936
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,943
  

 Real estate funds
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
1,213
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,218
  

 Hedge funds
  
 
—  
  
  
 
473
  
  
 
696
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,169
  

 Principal investments
  
 
161
  
  
 
104
  
  
 
2,937
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,202
  

 Other
  
 
141
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
501
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
663
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
 
302
  
  
 
610
  
  
 
7,283
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
8,195
  

 Physical commodities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,651
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
9,697
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total financial instruments owned
  
 
112,408
  
  
 
217,883
  
  
 
32,326
  
  
 
(87,264
) 
 
 
275,353
  

 Securities available for sale
  
 
13,437
  
  
 
17,058
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
30,495
  

 Securities received as collateral
  
 
11,530
  
  
 
121
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
11,651
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell
  
 
—  
  
  
 
112
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
112
  

 Intangible assets(3)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
133
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
133
  








 Liabilities
  



  



  



  



 




 Deposits
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,101
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
2,101
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,337
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,339
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased:
  



  



  



  



 




 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



  



  



  



 




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
 
17,776
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
17,776
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
1,748
  
  
 
106
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,854
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
19,524
  
  
 
106
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
19,630
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
  
 
14,981
  
  
 
2,152
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
17,141
  

 Corporate and other debt:
  



  



  



  



 




 State and municipal securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
355
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
355
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,217
  
  
 
219
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
6,436
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  

 Unfunded lending commitments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,284
  
  
 
85
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,369
  

 Other debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
157
  
  
 
73
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
230
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,678
  
  
 
732
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
8,410
  
 











 
156
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
























 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
 
SignificantObservableInputs(Level
 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level
 3)
 
 
Counterpartyand CashCollateralNetting
 
 
Balance atDecember 31,2011
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Corporate equities(1)
  
 
24,347
  
 
 
149
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,497
  

 Derivative and other contracts:
  



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
 
1,680
  
 
 
873,466
  
 
 
4,881
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
880,027
  

 Credit contracts
  
 
—  
  
 
 
121,438
  
 
 
9,288
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
130,726
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
—  
  
 
 
64,218
  
 
 
530
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64,748
  

 Equity contracts
  
 
877
  
 
 
45,375
  
 
 
2,034
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
48,286
  

 Commodity contracts
  
 
7,144
  
 
 
31,248
  
 
 
1,606
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
39,998
  

 Other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
879
  
 
 
1,396
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,275
  

 Netting(2)
  
 
(7,596
) 
 
 
(1,045,912
) 
 
 
(11,837
) 
 
 
(54,262
) 
 
 
(1,119,607
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative and other contracts
  
 
2,105
  
 
 
90,712
  
 
 
7,898
  
 
 
(54,262
) 
 
 
46,453
  

 Physical commodities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total financial instruments sold, not yet purchased
  
 
60,957
  
 
 
100,813
  
 
 
8,639
  
 
 
(54,262
) 
 
 
116,147
  

 Obligation to return securities received as collateral
  
 
15,267
  
 
 
127
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,394
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
 
—  
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
340
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
348
  

 Other secured financings
  
 
—  
  
 
 
14,024
  
 
 
570
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,594
  

 Long-term borrowings
  
 
10
  
 
 
38,050
  
 
 
1,603
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
39,663
  
  


(1)
The Company holds or sells short for trading purposes equity securities issued by entities in diverse industries and of varying size. 


(2)
For positions with the same counterparty that cross over the levels of the fair value hierarchy, both counterparty netting and cash collateral netting are included in
the column titled “Counterparty and Cash Collateral Netting.” For contracts with the same counterparty, counterparty netting among positions classified within the same level is included within that level. For further information on
derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12. 


(3)
Amount represents mortgage servicing rights (“MSR”) accounted for at fair value. See Note 7 for further information on MSRs. 
  Transfers Between Level 1 and Level 2 During 2011. 
  For assets and liabilities that were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2
during the period, fair values are ascribed as if the assets or liabilities had been transferred as of the beginning of the period.   
Financial instruments owned—Other sovereign government obligations and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased—Other sovereign
government obligations.    During 2011, the Company reclassified approximately $0.9 billion of Other sovereign government obligations assets and approximately $1.7 billion of Other sovereign government obligations liabilities
from Level 1 to Level 2. These reclassifications primarily related to certain European peripheral government bonds as these securities traded with a high degree of pricing volatility, dispersion and wider bid-ask spreads. The Company continues to
mark these securities to observable market price quotations.  
Financial instruments owned—Derivative and other contracts and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased—Derivative and other
contracts.    During 2011, the Company reclassified approximately $0.7 billion of derivative assets and approximately $1.0 billion of derivative liabilities from Level 2 to Level 1 as these listed derivatives became actively
traded and were valued based on quoted prices from the exchange. Also during 2011, the Company reclassified approximately $1.3 billion of derivative assets and approximately $1.4 billion of derivative liabilities from Level 1 to Level 2 as
transactions in these contracts did not occur with sufficient frequency and volume to constitute an active market. 
 









 
157
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis at December 31, 2010.
  
























 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level
1)
 
 
SignificantObservableInputs(Level
 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level
 3)
 
 
Counterpartyand CashCollateralNetting
 
 
Balance atDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
  



 



 



 



 




 Financial instruments owned:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
$
19,226
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
19,226
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
3,827
  
 
 
25,380
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,220
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
23,053
  
 
 
25,380
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
48,446
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
  
 
25,334
  
 
 
8,501
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
33,908
  

 Corporate and other debt:
  



 



 



 



 




 State and municipal securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,229
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,339
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,690
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,009
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,692
  
 
 
188
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,880
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,322
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,335
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
—  
  
 
 
39,569
  
 
 
1,368
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
40,937
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,305
  
 
 
1,659
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,964
  

 Loans and lending commitments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
15,308
  
 
 
11,666
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
26,974
  

 Other debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,523
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,716
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
72,638
  
 
 
15,516
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
88,154
  

 Corporate equities(1)
  
 
65,009
  
 
 
2,923
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
68,416
  

 Derivative and other contracts:
  



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
 
3,985
  
 
 
616,016
  
 
 
966
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
620,967
  

 Credit contracts
  
 
—  
  
 
 
95,818
  
 
 
14,316
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
110,134
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
1
  
 
 
61,556
  
 
 
431
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
61,988
  

 Equity contracts
  
 
2,176
  
 
 
36,612
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
39,846
  

 Commodity contracts
  
 
5,464
  
 
 
57,528
  
 
 
1,160
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64,152
  

 Other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
108
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
243
  

 Netting(2)
  
 
(8,551
) 
 
 
(761,939
) 
 
 
(7,168
) 
 
 
(68,380
) 
 
 
(846,038
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative and other contracts
  
 
3,075
  
 
 
105,699
  
 
 
10,898
  
 
 
(68,380
) 
 
 
51,292
  

 Investments:
  



 



 



 



 




 Private equity funds
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,986
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,986
  

 Real estate funds
  
 
—  
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
1,176
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,184
  

 Hedge funds
  
 
—  
  
 
 
736
  
 
 
901
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,637
  

 Principal investments
  
 
286
  
 
 
486
  
 
 
3,131
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,903
  

 Other(3)
  
 
403
  
 
 
79
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,042
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
 
689
  
 
 
1,309
  
 
 
7,754
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,752
  

 Physical commodities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
6,778
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,778
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total financial instruments owned
  
 
117,160
  
 
 
223,228
  
 
 
34,738
  
 
 
(68,380
) 
 
 
306,746
  
 











 
158
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
























 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level
1)
 
 
SignificantObservableInputs(Level
 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level
 3)
 
 
Counterpartyand CashCollateralNetting
 
 
Balance atDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
20,792
  
 
 
8,857
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,649
  

 Securities received as collateral
  
 
15,646
  
 
 
890
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16,537
  

 Intangible assets(4)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
157
  








 Liabilities
  



 



 



 



 




 Deposits
  
$
—  
  
 
$
3,011
  
 
$
16
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3,027
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,797
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,799
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
 
25,225
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25,225
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
2,656
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,723
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
27,881
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
27,948
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
  
 
19,708
  
 
 
2,542
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,250
  

 Corporate and other debt:
  



 



 



 



 




 State and municipal securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
—  
  
 
 
9,100
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,144
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  

 Unfunded lending commitments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
464
  
 
 
263
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
727
  

 Other debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
828
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,022
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
10,417
  
 
 
501
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,918
  

 Corporate equities(1)
  
 
19,696
  
 
 
127
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19,838
  

 Derivative and other contracts:
  



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
 
3,883
  
 
 
591,378
  
 
 
542
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
595,803
  

 Credit contracts
  
 
—  
  
 
 
87,904
  
 
 
7,722
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
95,626
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
2
  
 
 
64,301
  
 
 
385
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64,688
  

 Equity contracts
  
 
2,098
  
 
 
42,242
  
 
 
1,820
  
 
 
—
 
 
 
46,160
  

 Commodity contracts
  
 
5,871
  
 
 
58,885
  
 
 
972
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
65,728
  

 Other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
520
  
 
 
1,048
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,568
  

 Netting(2)
  
 
(8,551
) 
 
 
(761,939
) 
 
 
(7,168
) 
 
 
(44,113
) 
 
 
(821,771
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative and other contracts
  
 
3,303
  
 
 
83,291
  
 
 
5,321
  
 
 
(44,113
) 
 
 
47,802
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total financial instruments sold, not yet purchased
  
 
70,588
  
 
 
96,444
  
 
 
5,837
  
 
 
(44,113
) 
 
 
128,756
  

 Obligation to return securities received as collateral
  
 
20,272
  
 
 
890
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21,163
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
 
—  
  
 
 
498
  
 
 
351
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
849
  

 Other secured financings
  
 
—  
  
 
 
7,474
  
 
 
1,016
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,490
  

 Long-term borrowings
  
 
—  
  
 
 
41,393
  
 
 
1,316
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
42,709
  
  


(1)
The Company holds or sells short for trading purposes equity securities issued by entities in diverse industries and of varying size. 
 









 
159
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


(2)
For positions with the same counterparty that cross over the levels of the fair value hierarchy, both counterparty netting and cash collateral netting are included in
the column titled “Counterparty and Cash Collateral Netting.” For contracts with the same counterparty, counterparty netting among positions classified within the same level is included within that level. For further information on
derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12. 


(3)
In June 2010, the Company voluntarily contributed $25 million to certain other investments in funds that it manages in connection with upcoming rule changes regarding
net asset value disclosures for money market funds. Based on current liquidity and fund performance, the Company does not expect to provide additional voluntary support to non-consolidated funds that it manages. 


(4)
Amount represents MSRs accounted for at fair value. See Note 7 for further information on MSRs.    Transfers Between Level 1 and Level 2 During 2010. 
  Financial instruments owned—Derivative and other contracts and
Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased—Derivative and other contracts.    During 2010, the Company reclassified approximately $2.9 billion of derivative assets and approximately $2.7 billion of derivative
liabilities from Level 2 to Level 1 as these listed derivatives became actively traded and were valued based on quoted prices from an exchange.   
Financial instruments owned—Corporate equities.    During 2010, the Company reclassified approximately $1.2 billion
of certain Corporate equities from Level 2 to Level 1 as transactions in these securities occurred with sufficient frequency and volume to constitute an active market. 
  Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
Basis.    The following tables present additional information
about Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Level 3 instruments may be hedged with instruments classified in Level 1 and Level 2. As a result, the realized and
unrealized gains (losses) for assets and liabilities within the Level 3 category presented in the tables below do not reflect the related realized and unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments that have been classified by
the Company within the Level 1 and/or Level 2 categories.   
Additionally, both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair value of positions that the Company has
classified within the Level 3 category. As a result, the unrealized gains (losses) during the period for assets and liabilities within the Level 3 category presented in the tables below may include
changes in fair value during the period that were attributable to both observable (e.g., changes in market interest rates) and unobservable (e.g., changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities) inputs. 
  For assets and liabilities that were transferred into Level 3 during the
period, gains (losses) are presented as if the assets or liabilities had been transferred into Level 3 at the beginning of the period; similarly, for assets and liabilities that were transferred out of Level 3 during the period, gains (losses) are
presented as if the assets or liabilities had been transferred out at the beginning of the period. 
 











 
160
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for 2011.
  








































 
 
BeginningBalance
atDecember 31,2010
 
 
Total Realizedand UnrealizedGains (Losses)(1)
 
 
Purchases
 
 
Sales
 
 
Issuances
 
 
Settlements
 
 
Net Transfers
 
 
EndingBalance atDecember 31,2011
 
 
UnrealizedGains (Losses)for Level 3Assets/LiabilitiesOutstanding 
atDecember 31,2011(2)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Financial instruments owned:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. agency securities
 
$
13
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
66
  
 
$
(68
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(3
) 
 
$
8
  
 
$
—  
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
 
 
73
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
56
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
119
  
 
 
(2
) 

 Corporate and other debt:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 State and municipal securities
 
 
110
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(96
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
319
  
 
 
(61
) 
 
 
382
  
 
 
(221
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
76
  
 
 
494
  
 
 
(59
) 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
188
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
(90
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(51
) 
 
 
134
  
 
 
(18
) 

 Asset-backed securities
 
 
13
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
2
  

 Corporate bonds
 
 
1,368
  
 
 
(136
) 
 
 
467
  
 
 
(661
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(363
) 
 
 
675
  
 
 
(20
) 

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
1,659
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
613
  
 
 
(1,296
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
980
  
 
 
(84
) 

 Loans and lending commitments
 
 
11,666
  
 
 
(251
) 
 
 
2,932
  
 
 
(1,241
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,900
) 
 
 
(616
) 
 
 
9,590
  
 
 
(431
) 

 Other debt
 
 
193
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
128
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
 
 
15,516
  
 
 
(282
) 
 
 
4,496
  
 
 
(3,700
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,967
) 
 
 
(1,031
) 
 
 
12,032
  
 
 
(610
) 

 Corporate equities
 
 
484
  
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
416
  
 
 
(360
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(77
) 
 
 
417
  
 
 
16
  

 Net derivative and other contracts(3):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate contracts
 
 
424
  
 
 
628
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(714
) 
 
 
(150
) 
 
 
187
  
 
 
420
  
 
 
522
  

 Credit contracts
 
 
6,594
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
1,199
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(277
) 
 
 
(2,165
) 
 
 
144
  
 
 
5,814
  
 
 
1,818
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
 
 
46
  
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
43
  
 
 
(13
) 

 Equity contracts
 
 
(762
) 
 
 
592
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
(133
) 
 
 
(1,329
) 
 
 
136
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
(1,234
) 
 
 
564
  

 Commodity contracts
 
 
188
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(433
) 
 
 
55
  
 
 
570
  
 
 
689
  

 Other
 
 
(913
) 
 
 
(552
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(118
) 
 
 
405
  
 
 
87
  
 
 
(1,090
) 
 
 
(536
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net derivative and other contracts
 
 
5,577
  
 
 
1,660
  
 
 
1,513
  
 
 
(133
) 
 
 
(2,438
) 
 
 
(2,179
) 
 
 
523
  
 
 
4,523
  
 
 
3,044
  
 









 
161
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 








































 
 
BeginningBalance
atDecember 31,2010
 
 
Total Realizedand UnrealizedGains (Losses) (1)
 
 
Purchases
 
 
Sales
 
 
Issuances
 
 
Settlements
 
 
Net Transfers
 
 
EndingBalance atDecember 31,2011
 
 
UnrealizedGains (Losses)for Level 3Assets/LiabilitiesOutstanding 
atDecember 31,2011(2)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Investments:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Private equity funds
 
 
1,986
  
 
 
159
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
(513
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
1,936
  
 
 
85
  

 Real estate funds
 
 
1,176
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
(171
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
1,213
  
 
 
251
  

 Hedge funds
 
 
901
  
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
169
  
 
 
(380
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
696
  
 
 
(31
) 

 Principal investments
 
 
3,131
  
 
 
288
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
(819
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
2,937
  
 
 
87
  

 Other
 
 
560
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(71
) 
 
 
501
  
 
 
23
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
 
 
7,754
  
 
 
486
  
 
 
986
  
 
 
(1,917
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
7,283
  
 
 
415
  

 Physical commodities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(47
) 
 
 
771
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(673
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
46
  
 
 
1
  

 Securities received as collateral
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Intangible assets
 
 
157
  
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
6
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
(27
) 












 Liabilities
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Deposits
 
$
16
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(14
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Other sovereign government obligations
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
—  
  

 Corporate and other debt:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
347
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
355
  
 
 
(8
) 

 Corporate bonds
 
 
44
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
(407
) 
 
 
694
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(75
) 
 
 
219
  
 
 
51
  

 Unfunded lending commitments
 
 
263
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
178
  

 Other debt
 
 
194
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
22
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
73
  
 
 
12
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
 
 
501
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
(419
) 
 
 
1,063
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(81
) 
 
 
732
  
 
 
233
  

 Corporate equities
 
 
15
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  

 Obligation to return securities received as collateral
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
 
 
351
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
340
  
 
 
11
  

 Other secured financings
 
 
1,016
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
154
  
 
 
(267
) 
 
 
(306
) 
 
 
570
  
 
 
13
  

 Long-term borrowings
 
 
1,316
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
769
  
 
 
(377
) 
 
 
(66
) 
 
 
1,603
  
 
 
32
  
  


(1)
Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Principal transactions—Trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $486
million related to Financial instruments owned—Investments, which is included in Principal transactions—Investments. 


(2)
Amounts represent unrealized gains (losses) for 2011 related to assets and liabilities still outstanding at December 31, 2011. 


(3)
Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned—Derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased—Derivative and other contracts. For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12. 
 











 
162
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Financial instruments owned—Corporate and other debt.    During 2011,
the Company reclassified approximately $1.8 billion of certain Corporate and other debt, primarily corporate loans, from Level 3 to Level 2. The Company reclassified these corporate loans as external prices and/or spread inputs for these instruments
became observable.   The Company also reclassified approximately
$0.8 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to corporate loans and were generally due to a reduction in market price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or a lack
of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments.   
Financial instruments owned—Net derivative and other contracts.    The net gains in Net derivatives and other contract
were primarily driven by market movements and certain transactions during 2011 related to interest rate, equity and commodity contracts.   
Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for 2010. 
 




























 
 
BeginningBalance atDecember 31,2009
 
 
Total Realizedand UnrealizedGains (Losses)(1)
 
 
Purchases,Sales, 
OtherSettlementsandIssuances, 
net
 
 
NetTransfers
 
 
EndingBalance atDecember 31,2010
 
 
UnrealizedGains (Losses)for Level
3Assets/LiabilitiesOutstanding atDecember 31,2010(2)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Financial instruments owned:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. agency securities
 
$
36
  
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
13
  
 
$
(35
) 
 
$
13
  
 
$
(1
) 

 Other sovereign government obligations
 
 
3
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
73
  
 
 
5
  

 Corporate and other debt:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 State and municipal securities
 
 
713
  
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(533
) 
 
 
(59
) 
 
 
110
  
 
 
(12
) 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
818
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
(607
) 
 
 
96
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
(2
) 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
1,573
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
(1,054
) 
 
 
(366
) 
 
 
188
  
 
 
(61
) 

 Asset-backed securities
 
 
591
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
(436
) 
 
 
(152
) 
 
 
13
  
 
 
7
  

 Corporate bonds
 
 
1,038
  
 
 
(84
) 
 
 
403
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
1,368
  
 
 
41
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
1,553
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
(259
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
1,659
  
 
 
189
  

 Loans and lending commitments
 
 
12,506
  
 
 
203
  
 
 
(376
) 
 
 
(667
) 
 
 
11,666
  
 
 
214
  

 Other debt
 
 
1,662
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
(92
) 
 
 
(1,421
) 
 
 
193
  
 
 
49
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
 
 
20,454
  
 
 
577
  
 
 
(2,954
) 
 
 
(2,561
) 
 
 
15,516
  
 
 
425
  

 Corporate equities
 
 
536
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
(189
) 
 
 
19
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
59
  

 Net derivative and other contracts(3):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate contracts
 
 
387
  
 
 
238
  
 
 
(178
) 
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
424
  
 
 
260
  

 Credit contracts
 
 
8,824
  
 
 
(1,179
) 
 
 
128
  
 
 
(1,179
) 
 
 
6,594
  
 
 
58
  

 Foreign exchange rate contracts
 
 
254
  
 
 
(77
) 
 
 
33
  
 
 
(164
) 
 
 
46
  
 
 
(109
) 

 Equity contracts
 
 
(689
) 
 
 
(131
) 
 
 
(146
) 
 
 
204
  
 
 
(762
) 
 
 
(143
) 

 Commodity contracts
 
 
7
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
188
  
 
 
268
  

 Other
 
 
(437
) 
 
 
(266
) 
 
 
(220
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
(913
) 
 
 
(284
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net derivative and other contracts
 
 
8,346
  
 
 
(1,294
) 
 
 
(323
) 
 
 
(1,152
) 
 
 
5,577
  
 
 
50
  
 









 
163
 






Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 




























 
 
BeginningBalance atDecember 31,2009
 
 
Total Realizedand UnrealizedGains (Losses)(1)
 
 
Purchases,Sales, 
OtherSettlementsandIssuances, 
net
 
 
NetTransfers
 
 
EndingBalance atDecember 31,2010
 
 
UnrealizedGains (Losses)for Level
3Assets/LiabilitiesOutstanding atDecember 31,2010(2)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Investments:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Private equity funds
 
 
1,296
  
 
 
496
  
 
 
202
  
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
1,986
  
 
 
462
  

 Real estate funds
 
 
833
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1,176
  
 
 
399
  

 Hedge funds
 
 
1,708
  
 
 
(161
) 
 
 
(327
) 
 
 
(319
) 
 
 
901
  
 
 
(160
) 

 Principal investments
 
 
3,195
  
 
 
470
  
 
 
229
  
 
 
(763
) 
 
 
3,131
  
 
 
412
  

 Other
 
 
581
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
(129
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
560
  
 
 
49
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
 
 
7,613
  
 
 
1,165
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
(1,088
) 
 
 
7,754
  
 
 
1,162
  

 Securities received as collateral
 
 
23
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  

 Intangible assets
 
 
137
  
 
 
43
  
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
23
  









 Liabilities
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Deposits
 
$
 24
  
 
$
 —
 
 
$
 —
 
 
$
  
(8) 
 
$
 16
  
 
$
 —
 

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Corporate and other debt:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Asset-backed securities
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Corporate bonds
 
 
29
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
13
  
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
44
  
 
 
(9
) 

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Unfunded lending commitments
 
 
252
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
263
  
 
 
(2
) 

 Other debt
 
 
431
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
(161
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
194
  
 
 
62
  


 



 



 



 



 



 




 Total corporate and other debt
 
 
719
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
(148
) 
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
501
  
 
 
51
  

 Corporate equities
 
 
4
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
15
  
 
 
9
  

 Obligation to return securities received as collateral
 
 
23
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
350
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
351
  
 
 
(1
) 

 Other secured financings
 
 
1,532
  
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
(612
) 
 
 
52
  
 
 
1,016
  
 
 
(44
) 

 Long-term borrowings
 
 
6,865
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
(5,175
) 
 
 
(308
) 
 
 
1,316
  
 
 
(84
) 
  


(1)
Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Principal transactions—Trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $1,165
million related to Financial instruments owned—Investments, which is included in Principal transactions—Investments. 


(2)
Amounts represent unrealized gains (losses) for 2010 related to assets and liabilities still outstanding at December 31, 2010. 


(3)
Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned—Derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased—Derivative and other contracts. For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12.   
Financial instruments owned—Corporate and other debt.    During 2010, the Company reclassified approximately
$3.5 billion of certain Corporate and other debt, primarily loans and hybrid contracts, from Level 3 to Level 2. The Company reclassified these loans and hybrid contracts as external prices and/or spread inputs for these instruments became
observable and certain unobservable inputs were deemed insignificant to the overall measurement.    The Company also reclassified approximately $0.9 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to certain corporate loans and were
generally due to a 
 











 
164
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

reduction in market price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement of
these instruments.    Financial instruments owned—Net
derivative and other contracts.    The net losses in Net derivative and other contracts were primarily driven by tightening of credit spreads on underlying reference entities of single name and basket credit default swaps.
   During 2010, the Company reclassified approximately
$1.2 billion of certain Net derivative contracts from Level 3 to Level 2. These reclassifications were related to certain tranched bespoke credit basket default swaps and single name credit default swaps for which certain unobservable inputs
were deemed insignificant.    Financial instruments
owned—Investments.    During 2010, the Company reclassified approximately $1.0 billion from Level 3 to Level 2. These reclassifications were primarily related to principal investments for which external prices became
unobservable. 
 









 
165
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for 2009.
  




























 
 
BeginningBalance atDecember 31,2008
 
 
Total RealizedandUnrealizedGains(Losses)(1)
 
 
Purchases,Sales, 
OtherSettlementsand 
Issuances,net
 
 
NetTransfers
 
 
EndingBalance atDecember 31,2009
 
 
UnrealizedGains (Losses)for Level
3Assets/LiabilitiesOutstanding atDecember 31,2009(2)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Financial instruments owned:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. agency securities
 
$
127
  
 
$
(2
) 
 
$
(56
) 
 
$
(33
) 
 
$
36
  
 
$
—  
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
 
 
1
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  

 Corporate and other debt:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 State and municipal securities
 
 
2,065
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(413
) 
 
 
(941
) 
 
 
713
  
 
 
(26
) 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
1,197
  
 
 
(79
) 
 
 
(125
) 
 
 
(175
) 
 
 
818
  
 
 
(52
) 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
3,017
  
 
 
(654
) 
 
 
(314
) 
 
 
(476
) 
 
 
1,573
  
 
 
(662
) 

 Asset-backed securities
 
 
1,013
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
(468
) 
 
 
(45
) 
 
 
591
  
 
 
(12
) 

 Corporate bonds
 
 
2,753
  
 
 
(184
) 
 
 
(917
) 
 
 
(614
) 
 
 
1,038
  
 
 
33
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
946
  
 
 
630
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
(53
) 
 
 
1,553
  
 
 
418
  

 Loans and lending commitments
 
 
20,180
  
 
 
(1,225
) 
 
 
(5,898
) 
 
 
(551
) 
 
 
12,506
  
 
 
(763
) 

 Other debt
 
 
3,747
  
 
 
985
  
 
 
(2,386
) 
 
 
(684
) 
 
 
1,662
  
 
 
775
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
 
 
34,918
  
 
 
(434
) 
 
 
(10,491
) 
 
 
(3,539
) 
 
 
20,454
  
 
 
(289
) 

 Corporate equities
 
 
976
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
(691
) 
 
 
130
  
 
 
536
  
 
 
(227
) 

 Net derivative and other contracts(3)
 
 
23,382
  
 
 
(4,316
) 
 
 
(956
) 
 
 
(9,764
) 
 
 
8,346
  
 
 
(3,037
) 

 Investments
 
 
9,698
  
 
 
(1,418
) 
 
 
82
  
 
 
(749
) 
 
 
7,613
  
 
 
(1,317
) 

 Securities received as collateral
 
 
30
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
—  
  

 Intangible assets
 
 
184
  
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
(44
) 

 Liabilities
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Deposits
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(2
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
22
  
 
$
24
  
 
$
(2
) 

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Other sovereign government obligations
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Corporate and other debt:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
13
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Asset-backed securities
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  

 Corporate bonds
 
 
395
  
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
(291
) 
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
29
  
 
 
(30
) 

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  

 Unfunded lending commitments
 
 
24
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
216
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
252
  
 
 
(12
) 

 Other debt
 
 
3,372
  
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(2,291
) 
 
 
(663
) 
 
 
431
  
 
 
(196
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
 
 
3,808
  
 
 
(47
) 
 
 
(2,376
) 
 
 
(760
) 
 
 
719
  
 
 
(238
) 

 Corporate equities
 
 
27
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(90
) 
 
 
61
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
(1
) 

 Obligation to return securities received as collateral
 
 
30
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other secured financings
 
 
6,148
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
(3,757
) 
 
 
(463
) 
 
 
1,532
  
 
 
(50
) 

 Long-term borrowings
 
 
5,473
  
 
 
(450
) 
 
 
267
  
 
 
675
  
 
 
6,865
  
 
 
(450
) 

 












 
166
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
 


(1)
Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Principal transactions—Trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $(1,418)
million related to Financial instruments owned—Investments, which is included in Principal transactions—Investments. 


(2)
Amounts represent unrealized gains (losses) for 2009 related to assets and liabilities still outstanding at December 31, 2009. 


(3)
Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned—Derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased—Derivative and other contracts. For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12.   
Financial instruments owned—Corporate and other debt.    The net losses in Level 3 Corporate and other debt were
primarily driven by certain corporate loans and certain commercial mortgage-backed securities, partially offset by gains in certain other debt and collateralized debt obligations. 
  During 2009, the Company reclassified approximately $6.8 billion of certain
Corporate and other debt from Level 3 to Level 2. The reclassifications were primarily related to certain corporate loans and bonds, state and municipal securities, CMBS and other debt. For certain corporate loans, more liquidity re-entered the
market and external prices and/or spread inputs for these instruments became observable. For corporate bonds and CMBS, the reclassifications were primarily due to an increase in market price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or
available broker quotes, such that observable inputs were utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments. For certain other debt, as the unobservable inputs became insignificant in the overall valuation, the fair value of these
instruments became highly correlated with similar instruments in an observable market. For state and municipal securities, certain SLARS were reclassified as there was increased activity in the SLARS market and restructuring activity of the
underlying trusts.    During 2009, the Company also reclassified
approximately $3.3 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to corporate loans and were generally due to a reduction in market price quotations for these or comparable
instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments. The key unobservable inputs are assumptions to establish comparability to other instruments with
observable spread levels.    Financial instruments owned—Net
derivative and other contracts.    The net losses in Net derivative and other contracts were primarily driven by tightening of credit spreads on underlying reference entities of single name and basket default swaps.
   During 2009, the Company reclassified approximately
$10.2 billion of certain Derivative and other contracts from Level 3 to Level 2, primarily related to single name subprime and CMBS credit default swaps as well as tranched-indexed corporate credit default swaps. Certain single name subprime
and CMBS credit default swaps were reclassified primarily because the values associated with the unobservable inputs, such as correlation, were no longer deemed significant to the fair value measurement of these derivative contracts due to market
deterioration. Increased availability of transaction data, broker quotes and/or consensus pricing resulted in the reclassifications of certain tranche-indexed corporate credit default swaps. The Company reclassified approximately $0.4 billion of
certain Derivative and other contracts from Level 2 to Level 3 as certain inputs became unobservable.    Financial instruments owned—Investments.    The net losses from investments were primarily related to investments associated with the Company’s real estate products.
   The Company reclassified investments in certain hedge funds from
Level 3 to Level 2 because they were redeemable at the measurement date or in the near future. 
 









 
167
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Fair Value of Investments that Calculate Net Asset Value. 
  The Company’s Investments measured at fair value were $8,195 million
and $9,752 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following table presents information solely about the Company’s investments in private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds measured at fair value based on net
asset value at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FairValue
 
  
UnfundedCommitment
 
  
FairValue
 
  
UnfundedCommitment
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Private equity funds
  
$
1,906
  
  
$
938
  
  
$
1,947
  
  
$
1,047
  

 Real estate funds
  
 
1,188
  
  
 
448
  
  
 
1,154
  
  
 
500
  

 Hedge funds(1):
  



  



  



  




 Long-short equity hedge funds
  
 
545
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
1,046
  
  
 
4
  

 Fixed income/credit-related hedge funds
  
 
124
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
305
  
  
 
—  
  

 Event-driven hedge funds
  
 
163
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
143
  
  
 
—  
  

 Multi-strategy hedge funds
  
 
335
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
140
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,261
  
  
$
1,391
  
  
$
4,735
  
  
$
1,551
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Fixed income/credit-related hedge funds, event-driven hedge funds, and multi-strategy hedge funds are redeemable at least on a six-month period basis primarily with a
notice period of 90 days or less. At December 31, 2011, approximately 38% of the fair value amount of long-short equity hedge funds is redeemable at least quarterly, 32% is redeemable every six months and 30% of these funds have a redemption
frequency of greater than six months. The notice period for long-short equity hedge funds at December 31, 2011 is primarily greater than six months. At December 31, 2010, approximately 49% of the fair value amount of long-short equity
hedge funds is redeemable at least quarterly, 24% is redeemable every six months and 27% of these funds have a redemption frequency of greater than six months. The notice period for long-short equity hedge funds at December 31, 2010 is
primarily greater than 90 days.    Private Equity
Funds.    Amount includes several private equity funds that pursue multiple strategies including leveraged buyouts, venture capital, infrastructure growth capital, distressed investments, and mezzanine capital. In addition,
the funds may be structured with a focus on specific domestic or foreign geographic regions. These investments are generally not redeemable with the funds. Instead, the nature of the investments in this category is that distributions are received
through the liquidation of the underlying assets of the fund. At December 31, 2011, it is estimated that 6% of the fair value of the funds will be liquidated in the next five years, another 31% of the fair value of the funds will be liquidated
between five to 10 years and the remaining 63% of the fair value of the funds have a remaining life of greater than 10 years.   
Real Estate Funds.    Amount includes several real estate funds that invest in real estate assets such as commercial office
buildings, retail properties, multi-family residential properties, developments or hotels. In addition, the funds may be structured with a focus on specific geographic domestic or foreign regions. These investments are generally not redeemable
with the funds. Distributions from each fund will be received as the underlying investments of the funds are liquidated. At December 31, 2011, it is estimated that 5% of the fair value of the funds will be liquidated within the next five years,
another 36% of the fair value of the funds will be liquidated between five to 10 years and the remaining 59% of the fair value of the funds have a remaining life of greater than 10 years.    Hedge Funds.    Investments in hedge funds may be subject to initial period lock-up restrictions or
gates. A hedge fund lock-up provision is a provision that provides that, during a certain initial period, an investor may not make a withdrawal from the fund. The purpose of a gate is to restrict the level of redemptions that an investor in a
particular hedge fund can demand on any redemption date.   


 
•
 
 Long-short Equity Hedge Funds.    Amount includes investments in hedge funds that invest, long or short, in equities. Equity
value and growth hedge funds purchase stocks perceived to be undervalued and sell 
 












 
168
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


 
 
stocks perceived to be overvalued. Investments representing approximately 9% of the fair value of the investments in this category cannot be redeemed currently because the investments include
certain initial period lock-up restrictions. The remaining restriction period for these investments subject to lock-up restrictions ranged from three years or less at December 31, 2011. Investments representing approximately 29% of the fair
value of the investments in long-short equity hedge funds cannot be redeemed currently because an exit restriction has been imposed by the hedge fund manager. The restriction period for these investments subject to an exit restriction was primarily
two years or less at December 31, 2011.   


 
•
 
 Fixed Income/Credit-Related Hedge Funds.    Amount includes investments in hedge funds that employ long-short, distressed or
relative value strategies in order to benefit from investments in undervalued or overvalued securities that are primarily debt or credit related. At December 31, 2011, investments representing approximately 47% of the fair value of the
investments in fixed income/credit-related hedge funds cannot be redeemed currently because the investments include certain initial period lock-up restrictions. The remaining restriction period for these investments subject to lock-up restrictions
was one year or less at December 31, 2011.   


 
•
 
 Event-Driven Hedge Funds.    Amount includes investments in hedge funds that invest in event-driven situations such as
mergers, hostile takeovers, reorganizations, or leveraged buyouts. This may involve the simultaneous purchase of stock in companies being acquired and the sale of stock in its acquirer, hoping to profit from the spread between the current market
price and the ultimate purchase price of the target company. At December 31, 2011, there were no restrictions on redemptions.   


 
•
 
 Multi-strategy Hedge Funds.    Amount includes investments in hedge funds that pursue multiple strategies to realize short-
and long-term gains. Management of the hedge funds has the ability to overweight or underweight different strategies to best capitalize on current investment opportunities. At December 31, 2011, investments representing approximately 74% of the
fair value of the investments in this category cannot be redeemed currently because the investments include certain initial period lock-up restrictions. The remaining restriction period for these investments subject to lock-up restrictions was
primarily three years or more at December 31, 2011. 
 









 
169
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Fair Value Option. 
  The Company elected the fair value option for certain eligible instruments
that are risk managed on a fair value basis to mitigate income statement volatility caused by measurement basis differences between the elected instruments and their associated risk management transactions or to eliminate complexities of applying
certain accounting models. The following tables present net gains (losses) due to changes in fair value for items measured at fair value pursuant to the fair value option election for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 
















 
  
PrincipalTransactions-Trading
 
 
InterestExpense
 
 
Gains (Losses)Included inNet Revenues
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2011
  



 



 




 Deposits
  
$
66
  
 
$
(117
) 
 
$
(51
) 

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell
  
 
12
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
  
 
567
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
567
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
 
3
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(4
) 

 Long-term borrowings
  
 
4,204
  
 
 
(1,075
) 
 
 
3,129
  






 Year Ended December 31, 2010
  



 



 




 Deposits
  
$
2
  
 
$
(173
) 
 
$
(171
) 

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8
) 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
 
9
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
8
  

 Long-term borrowings
  
 
(872
) 
 
 
(849
) 
 
 
(1,721
) 






 Year Ended December 31, 2009
  



 



 




 Deposits
  
$
(81
) 
 
$
(321
) 
 
$
(402
) 

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
  
 
(176
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(176
) 

 Long-term borrowings
  
 
(7,660
) 
 
 
(983
) 
 
 
(8,643
) 
   In addition to the amounts in the above
table, as discussed in Note 2, all of the instruments within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased are measured at fair value, either through the election of the fair value option, or as required by other
accounting guidance. The amounts in the above table are included within Net revenues and do not reflect gains or losses on related hedging instruments, if any.   
The changes in overall fair value of the short-term and long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes) are attributable to changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, interest rates, movements in the reference price or index for structured notes and (as presented in the table below) an adjustment to reflect the change in the Company’s credit spreads and other credit factors.
   The following tables present information on the Company’s
short-term and long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes), loans and unfunded lending commitments for which the fair value option was elected.   
Gains (Losses) due to Changes in Instrument Specific Credit Risk.   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Short-term and long-term borrowings(1)
  
$
3,681
  
 
$
(873
) 
 
$
(5,510
) 

 Loans(2)
  
 
(585
) 
 
 
448
  
 
 
4,139
  

 Unfunded lending commitments(3)
  
 
(787
) 
 
 
(148
) 
 
 
(8
) 
  


(1)
The change in the fair value of short-term and long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes) includes an adjustment to reflect the change in credit quality of the
Company based upon observations of the Company’s secondary bond market spreads. 
 












 
170
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


(2)
Instrument-specific credit gains (losses) were determined by excluding the non-credit components of gains and losses, such as those due to changes in interest rates.



(3)
Gains (losses) were generally determined based on the differential between estimated expected client yields and contractual yields at each respective period end.
   Net Difference between Contractual Principal
Amount and Fair Value.   












 
  
Contractual Principal AmountExceeds Fair Value
 

 
  
At December31, 2011
 
  
At December31, 2010
 

 
  
(dollars in billions)
 

 Short-term and long-term borrowings(1)
  
$
2.5
  
  
$
0.6
  

 Loans(2)
  
 
27.2
  
  
 
24.3
  

 Loans 90 or more days past due and/or on non-accrual status(2)(3)
  
 
22.1
  
  
 
21.2
  
  


(1)
These amounts do not include structured notes where the repayment of the initial principal amount fluctuates based on changes in the reference price or index.



(2)
The majority of this difference between principal and fair value amounts emanates from the Company’s distressed debt trading business, which purchases distressed
debt at amounts well below par. 


(3)
The aggregate fair value of loans that were in non-accrual status, which includes all loans 90 or more days past due, was $2.0 billion and $2.2 billion at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The aggregate fair value of loans that were 90 or more days past due was $1.5 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.
   The tables above exclude non-recourse debt from
consolidated VIEs, liabilities related to failed sales, pledged commodities and other liabilities that have specified assets attributable to them.   
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis. 
  Certain assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and are
not included in the tables above. These assets may include loans, equity method investments, premises and equipment, intangible assets and real estate investments. 
  The following tables present, by caption on the consolidated statements of
financial condition, the fair value hierarchy for those assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis for which the Company recognized a non-recurring fair value adjustment for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  2011. 
 
























  
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements Using:
 
 
 
 

 
 
Carrying ValueAt December 31,2011
 
 
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level
1)
 
 
SignificantObservable Inputs(Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
 
TotalGains(Losses) for2011(1)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Loans(2)
 
$
70
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
70
  
 
$
5
  

 Other investments(3)
 
 
71
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
(52
) 

 Premises, equipment and software costs(3)
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
(7
) 

 Intangible assets(4)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
145
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
145
  
 
$
(61
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income except for fair value adjustments related to Loans and losses related to Other
investments, which are included in Other revenues. 
 









 
171
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


(2)
Non-recurring changes in fair value for loans held for investment were calculated based upon the fair value of the underlying collateral. The fair value of the
collateral was determined using internal expected recovery models. The non-recurring change in fair value for mortgage loans held for sale is based upon a valuation model incorporating market observable inputs. 


(3)
Losses recorded were determined primarily using discounted cash flow models. 


(4)
Losses were determined primarily using discounted cash flow models or a valuation technique incorporating an observable market index. 
  In addition to the losses included in the table above, impairment losses of
approximately $98 million (of which $83 million related to Other assets and $15 million related to Premises, equipment and software costs) were included in discontinued operations related to Saxon (see Notes 1 and 25). These losses were determined
using the purchase price agreed upon with the buyer.    There were
no liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during 2011.    2010.   
























  
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements Using:
 
 
 
 

 
 
Carrying ValueAt December 31,2010
 
 
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
 
SignificantObservable Inputs(Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
 
TotalGains(Losses) for2010(1)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Loans(2)
 
$
680
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
151
  
 
$
529
  
 
$
(12
) 

 Other investments(3)
 
 
88
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
(19
) 

 Goodwill(4)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(27
) 

 Intangible assets(5)
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
(174
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
771
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
151
  
 
$
620
  
 
$
(232
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Losses related to Loans, impairments related to Other investments and losses related to Goodwill and certain Intangibles associated with the disposition of FrontPoint
Partners LLC (“FrontPoint”) are included in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income (see Notes 19 and 24 for further information on FrontPoint). Remaining losses were included in Other expenses in the consolidated
statements of income. 


(2)
Non-recurring changes in fair value for loans held for investment were calculated based upon the fair value of the underlying collateral. The fair value of the
collateral was determined using internal expected recovery models. The non-recurring change in fair value for mortgage loans held for sale is based upon a valuation model incorporating market observable inputs. 


(3)
Losses recorded were determined primarily using discounted cash flow models. 


(4)
Loss relates to FrontPoint, determined primarily using discounted cash flow models (see Notes 19 and 24 for further information on FrontPoint).



(5)
Losses primarily related to investment management contracts, including contracts associated with FrontPoint, and were determined primarily using discounted cash flow
models.    In addition to the losses included in the
table above, the Company incurred a loss of approximately $1.2 billion in connection with the disposition of Revel, which was included in discontinued operations. The loss primarily related to premises, equipment and software costs
and was included in discontinued operations (see Notes 1 and 25). The fair value of Revel, net of estimated costs to sell, included in Premises, equipment and software costs was approximately $28 million at December 31, 2010 and was
classified in Level 3. Fair value was determined using discounted cash flow models.    There were no liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during 2010. 
 











 
172
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
2009.   
























  
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements Using:
 
 
 
 

 
 
Carrying ValueAt December 31,2009
 
 
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
 
SignificantObservable Inputs(Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
 
TotalGains(Losses) for2009(1)
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Loans(2)
 
$
739
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
739
  
 
$
(269
) 

 Other investments(3)
 
 
66
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
(39
) 

 Premises, equipment and software costs(3)
 
 
8
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
(5
) 

 Intangible assets(3)
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
(4
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
816
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
816
  
 
$
(317
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income except for fair value adjustments related to Loans and losses related to Other
investments, which are included in Other revenues. 


(2)
Losses for loans held for investment and held for sale were calculated based upon the fair value of the underlying collateral. The fair value of the collateral was
determined using internal expected recovery models. 


(3)
Losses recorded were determined primarily using discounted cash flow models. 
  In addition to the impairment losses included in the table above, impairment
losses of approximately $482 million (of which $45 million related to Other investments, $12 million related to Intangible assets, and $425 million related to Other assets) were included in discontinued operations primarily related to Crescent (see
Notes 1 and 25). Impairment losses of approximately $24 million were also included in discontinued operations related to premises and equipment of an entity sold by the Company in 2009.    There were no liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during 2009. 
  Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value. 
  Some of the Company’s financial instruments are not measured at fair
value on a recurring basis but nevertheless are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature. Such financial assets and financial liabilities include: Cash and due from banks, Interest bearing deposits
with banks, Cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements, certain Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell, Securities borrowed, certain Securities sold
under agreements to repurchase, Securities loaned, Receivables—Customers, Receivables—Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, Payables—Customers, Payables—Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, certain Commercial paper
and other short-term borrowings, certain Deposits and certain Other secured financings.    The Company’s long-term borrowings are recorded at amortized amounts unless elected under the fair value option or designated as a hedged item in a fair value hedge. For long-term borrowings not
measured at fair value, the fair value of the Company’s long-term borrowings was estimated using either quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analyses based on the Company’s current borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing
arrangements. At December 31, 2011, the carrying value of the Company’s long-term borrowings not measured at fair value was approximately $12.7 billion higher than fair value. At December 31, 2010, the carrying value of the
Company’s long-term borrowings not measured at fair value was approximately $1.8 billion higher than fair value. 
 









 
173
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
5.    Securities Available for Sale. 
  The following tables present information about the Company’s available
for sale securities:   
























 
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Other-than-TemporaryImpairment
 
  
Fair Value
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Debt securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
$
13,240
  
  
$
182
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
13,422
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
16,083
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
16,117
  

 Corporate and other debt(1)
  
 
944
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
941
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total debt securities available for sale
  
 
30,267
  
  
 
236
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
30,480
  

 Equity securities available for sale
  
 
15
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
15
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
30,282
  
  
$
236
  
  
$
23
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
30,495
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Amounts represent FFELP student loan asset-backed securities, which are backed by a guarantee from the U.S. Department of Education. 
 
























 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Other-than-TemporaryImpairment
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Debt securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
$
18,812
  
  
$
199
  
  
$
34
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
18,977
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
10,774
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
118
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
10,672
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
29,586
  
  
$
215
  
  
$
152
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
29,649
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The tables below present the fair value of
investments in debt securities available for sale that have been in an unrealized loss position:   




























 
  
Less than 12 Months
 
  
12 Months or Longer
 
  
Total
 

 At December 31, 2011
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Debt securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency securities
  
$
6,250
  
  
$
15
  
  
$
1,492
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
7,742
  
  
$
20
  

 Corporate and other debt
  
 
679
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
679
  
  
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
6,929
  
  
$
18
  
  
$
1,492
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
8,421
  
  
$
23
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 











 
174
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 




























 
  
Less than 12 Months
 
  
12 Months or Longer
 
  
Total
 

 At December 31, 2010
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Debt securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
$
1,960
  
  
$
34
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,960
  
  
$
34
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
7,736
  
  
 
118
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,736
  
  
 
118
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
9,696
  
  
$
152
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
9,696
  
  
$
152
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Gross unrealized losses are recorded in
Accumulated other comprehensive income.    There were no equity
securities available for sale in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2011. For debt securities available for sale, the Company does not intend to sell these securities or expect to be required to sell these securities prior to recovery
of the amortized cost basis. In addition, the Company does not expect these securities to experience a credit loss given the explicit and implicit guarantee provided by the U.S. government. The Company believes that the debt securities with an
unrealized loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of debt securities available for sale by contractual maturity dates at December 31,
2011.   
















 December 31, 2011
  
Amortized Cost
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
AnnualizedAverage Yield
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities:
  



  



  




 Due within 1 year
  
$
1,248
  
  
$
1,262
  
  
 
1.4
% 

 After 1 year but through 5 years
  
 
10,636
  
  
 
10,782
  
  
 
1.0
% 

 After 5 years
  
 
1,356
  
  
 
1,378
  
  
 
1.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
 
13,240
  
  
 
13,422
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 U.S. agency securities:
  



  



  




 After 5 years
  
 
16,083
  
  
 
16,117
  
  
 
1.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
 
16,083
  
  
 
16,117
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
29,323
  
  
 
29,539
  
  
 
1.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Corporate and other debt:
  



  



  




 After 5 years
  
 
944
  
  
 
941
  
  
 
1.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total Corporate and other debt
  
 
944
  
  
 
941
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total debt securities available for sale
  
$
30,267
  
  
$
30,480
  
  
 
1.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 









 
175
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following table presents information pertaining to sales of securities available for sale during
2011 and 2010:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Gross realized gains
  
$
145
  
  
$
102
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross realized losses
  
$
2
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Proceeds of sales of securities available for sale
  
$
17,085
  
  
$
670
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Gross realized gains and losses are
recognized in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income.    6.    Collateralized Transactions.    The Company enters into reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions to, among other things, acquire securities to cover short positions and
settle other securities obligations, to accommodate customers’ needs and to finance the Company’s inventory positions. The Company’s policy is generally to take possession of Securities received as collateral, Securities purchased
under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed. The Company manages credit exposure arising from reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions by, in appropriate circumstances,
entering into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties that provide the Company, in the event of a customer default, the right to liquidate collateral and the right to offset a counterparty’s rights and
obligations. The Company also monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared with the related receivable or payable, including accrued interest, and, as necessary, requests additional collateral to ensure such transactions are
adequately collateralized. Where deemed appropriate, the Company’s agreements with third parties specify its rights to request additional collateral.   
The Company also engages in securities financing transactions for customers through margin lending. Under these agreements and transactions, the Company
either receives or provides collateral, including U.S. government and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, corporate and other debt, and corporate equities. Customer receivables generated from margin lending activity are
collateralized by customer-owned securities held by the Company. The Company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce
positions, when necessary. Margin loans are extended on a demand basis and are not committed facilities. Factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the
account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies to reduce risk. Additionally,
transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. Underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed
collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. For these transactions, adherence to the Company’s collateral policies significantly limits the
Company’s credit exposure in the event of customer default. The Company may request additional margin collateral from customers, if appropriate, and, if necessary, may sell securities that have not been paid for or purchase securities sold but
not delivered from customers. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, there were approximately $16.2 billion and $18.0 billion, respectively, of customer margin loans outstanding. 
  Other secured financings include the liabilities related to transfers of
financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales, consolidated VIEs where the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, and 
 











 
176
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

certain equity-linked notes and other secured borrowings. These liabilities are generally payable from the cash flows of the related assets accounted for as Financial instruments owned (see Note
7).    The Company pledges its financial instruments owned to
collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. Pledged financial instruments that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as Financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) in the consolidated
statements of financial condition. The carrying value and classification of financial instruments owned by the Company that have been loaned or pledged to counterparties where those counterparties do not have the right to sell or repledge the
collateral were as follows:   












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
AtDecember 
31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Financial instruments owned:
  



  




 U.S. government and agency securities
  
$
9,263
  
  
$
11,513
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
  
 
4,047
  
  
 
8,741
  

 Corporate and other debt
  
 
17,024
  
  
 
12,333
  

 Corporate equities
  
 
21,664
  
  
 
21,919
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
51,998
  
  
$
54,506
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The Company receives collateral in the form
of securities in connection with reverse repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and derivative transactions, and customer margin loans. In many cases, the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities held as collateral and use the
securities to secure repurchase agreements, to enter into securities lending and derivative transactions or for delivery to counterparties to cover short positions. The Company additionally receives securities as collateral in connection with
certain securities-for-securities transactions in which the Company is the lender. In instances where the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities, the Company reports the fair value of the collateral received and the related
obligation to return the collateral in the consolidated statements of financial condition. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the fair value of financial instruments received as collateral where the Company is permitted to sell or
repledge the securities was $488 billion and $537 billion, respectively, and the fair value of the portion that had been sold or repledged was $335 billion and $390 billion, respectively.    The Company is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in certain types of securities, loans or commitments to
purchase securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving developing countries, or issuers engaged in a particular
industry. Financial instruments owned by the Company include U.S. government and agency securities and securities issued by other sovereign governments (principally the U.K., Japan and Brazil), which, in the aggregate, represented approximately 12%
of the Company’s total assets at December 31, 2011. In addition, substantially all of the collateral held by the Company for resale agreements or bonds borrowed, which together represented approximately 24% of the Company’s total
assets at December 31, 2011, consist of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal agencies or other sovereign government obligations. Positions taken and commitments made by the Company, including positions taken and underwriting and
financing commitments made in connection with its private equity, principal investment and lending activities, often involve substantial amounts and significant exposure to individual issuers and businesses, including non-investment grade issuers.
In addition, the Company may originate or purchase certain residential and commercial mortgage loans that could contain certain terms and features that may result in additional credit risk as compared with more traditional types of mortgages. Such
terms and features may include loans made to borrowers subject to payment increases or loans with high loan-to-value ratios. 
 









 
177
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, cash and securities deposited with clearing
organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements were as follows:   












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements
  
$
29,454
  
  
$
19,180
  

 Securities(1)
  
 
15,120
  
  
 
18,935
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
44,574
  
  
$
38,115
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements are sourced from Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under agreements to resell and Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statements of financial condition.   
7.    Variable Interest Entities and Securitization Activities. 
  The Company is involved with various SPEs in the normal
course of business. In most cases, these entities are deemed to be VIEs.    The Company applies accounting guidance for consolidation of VIEs to certain entities in which equity investors do not have characteristics of a controlling financial interest. Entities that previously
met the criteria as qualifying SPEs that were not subject to consolidation prior to January 1, 2010 became subject to the consolidation requirements for VIEs on that date. Excluding entities subject to the Deferral (as defined in Note 2)
effective January 1, 2010, the primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that both (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly affect the VIE’s economic performance and (2) has an obligation to
absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company consolidates entities of which it is the primary beneficiary.    The Company’s variable interests in VIEs include debt and equity interests, commitments, guarantees, derivative
instruments and certain fees. The Company’s involvement with VIEs arises primarily from:   


 
•
 
 Interests purchased in connection with market-making and retained interests held as a result of securitization activities, including re-securitization
transactions.   


 
•
 
 Guarantees issued and residual interests retained in connection with municipal bond securitizations. 
 


 
•
 
 Servicing residential and commercial mortgage loans held by VIEs.   


 
•
 
 Loans and investments made to VIEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets. 
 


 
•
 
 Derivatives entered into with VIEs.   


 
•
 
 Structuring of credit-linked notes (“CLN”) or other asset-repackaged notes designed to meet the investment objectives of clients.
  


 
•
 
 Other structured transactions designed to provide tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients. 
  The Company determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon
its initial involvement with the VIE and reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary on an ongoing basis as long as it has any continuing involvement with the VIE. This determination is based upon an analysis of the design of the VIE, including
the VIE’s structure and activities, the power to make significant economic decisions held by the Company and by other parties, and the variable interests owned by the Company and other parties. 
 











 
178
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The power to make the most significant economic decisions may take a number of different forms in
different types of VIEs. The Company considers servicing or collateral management decisions as representing the power to make the most significant economic decisions in transactions such as securitizations or CDOs. As a result, the Company does not
consolidate securitizations or CDOs for which it does not act as the servicer or collateral manager unless it holds certain other rights to replace the servicer or collateral manager or to require the liquidation of the entity. If the Company serves
as servicer or collateral manager, or has certain other rights described in the previous sentence, the Company analyzes the interests in the VIE that it holds and consolidates only those VIEs for which it holds a potentially significant interest of
the VIE.    The structure of securitization vehicles and CDOs are
driven by several parties, including loan seller(s) in securitization transactions, the collateral manager in a CDO, one or more rating agencies, a financial guarantor in some transactions and the underwriter(s) of the transactions, who serve to
reflect specific investor demand. In addition, subordinate investors, such as the “B-piece” buyer in commercial mortgage backed securitizations or equity investors in CDOs, can influence whether specific loans are excluded from a CMBS
transaction or investment criteria in a CDO.   For many
transactions, such as re-securitization transactions, CLNs and other asset-repackaged notes, there are no significant economic decisions made on an ongoing basis. In these cases, the Company focuses its analysis on decisions made prior to the
initial closing of the transaction and at the termination of the transaction. Based upon factors, which include an analysis of the nature of the assets, including whether the assets were issued in a transaction sponsored by the Company and the
extent of the information available to the Company and to investors, the number, nature and involvement of investors, other rights held by the Company and investors, the standardization of the legal documentation and the level of the continuing
involvement by the Company, including the amount and type of interests owned by the Company and by other investors, the Company concluded in most of these transactions that decisions made prior to the initial closing were shared between the Company
and the initial investors. The Company focused its control decision on any right held by the Company or investors related to the termination of the VIE. Most re-securitization transactions, CLNs and other asset-repackaged notes have no such
termination rights.    Except for consolidated VIEs included in
other structured financings in the tables below, the Company accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Financial instruments owned and the liabilities of the entities as Other secured financings in the consolidated statements of
financial condition. For consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings, the Company accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Premises, equipment and software costs, and Other assets in the consolidated statements of
financial condition. Except for consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings, the assets and liabilities are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in earnings. 
  The assets owned by many consolidated VIEs cannot be removed unilaterally by
the Company and are not generally available to the Company. The related liabilities issued by many consolidated VIEs are non-recourse to the Company. In certain other consolidated VIEs, the Company has the unilateral right to remove assets or
provides additional recourse through derivatives such as total return swaps, guarantees or other forms of involvement.   
As part of the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment’s securitization and related activities, the Company has provided, or
otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Company (see Note 13). 
 









 
179
 






Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following tables present information at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 about VIEs
that the Company consolidates. Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities are presented after intercompany eliminations and include assets financed on a non-recourse basis.   
























 
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Mortgage andAsset-backedSecuritizations
 
  
CollateralizedDebtObligations
 
  
ManagedReal EstatePartnerships
 
  
OtherStructuredFinancings
 
  
Other
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 VIE assets
  
$
2,414
  
  
$
102
  
  
$
2,207
  
  
$
918
  
  
$
1,937
  

 VIE liabilities
  
$
1,699
  
  
$
69
  
  
$
102
  
  
$
2,576
  
  
$
556
  
  
























 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Mortgage andAsset-BackedSecuritizations
 
  
CollateralizedDebtObligations
 
  
ManagedReal EstatePartnerships
 
  
OtherStructuredFinancings
 
  
Other
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 VIE assets
  
$
3,362
  
  
$
129
  
  
$
2,032
  
  
$
643
  
  
$
2,584
  

 VIE liabilities
  
$
2,544
  
  
$
68
  
  
$
108
  
  
$
2,571
  
  
$
1,219
  
   In general, the Company’s exposure to
loss in consolidated VIEs is limited to losses that would be absorbed on the VIE’s assets recognized in its financial statements, net of losses absorbed by third-party holders of the VIE’s liabilities. At December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, managed real estate partnerships reflected noncontrolling interests in the Company’s consolidated financial statements of $1,653 million and $1,508 million, respectively. The Company also had additional maximum
exposure to losses of approximately $200 million and $884 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. This additional exposure related primarily to certain derivatives (e.g., instead of purchasing senior
securities, the Company has sold credit protection to synthetic CDOs through credit derivatives that are typically related to the most senior tranche of the CDO) and commitments, guarantees and other forms of involvement. 
 











 
180
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following tables present information about certain non-consolidated VIEs in which the Company had
variable interests at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The tables include all VIEs in which the Company has determined that its maximum exposure to loss is greater than specific thresholds or meets certain other criteria. Most of
the VIEs included in the tables below are sponsored by unrelated parties; the Company’s involvement generally is the result of the Company’s secondary market-making activities. 
 
























 
 
At December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Mortgage andAsset-BackedSecuritizations
 
 
CollateralizedDebtObligations
 
 
MunicipalTenderOptionBonds
 
 
OtherStructuredFinancings
 
 
Other
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 VIE assets that the Company does not consolidate (unpaid principal balance)(1)
 
$
119,999
  
 
$
7,593
  
 
$
6,833
  
 
$
1,944
  
 
$
20,997
  

 Maximum exposure to loss:
 



 



 



 



 




 Debt and equity interests(2)
 
$
3,848
  
 
$
491
  
 
$
201
  
 
$
978
  
 
$
2,413
  

 Derivative and other contracts
 
 
103
  
 
 
843
  
 
 
4,141
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,209
  

 Commitments, guarantees and other
 
 
208
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
804
  
 
 
561
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total maximum exposure to loss
 
$
4,159
  
 
$
1,334
  
 
$
4,342
  
 
$
1,782
  
 
$
4,183
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Carrying value of exposure to loss—Assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Debt and equity interests(2)
 
$
3,848
  
 
$
491
  
 
$
201
  
 
$
640
  
 
$
2,413
  

 Derivative and other contracts
 
 
101
  
 
 
657
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
338
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total carrying value of exposure to loss—Assets
 
$
3,949
  
 
$
1,148
  
 
$
225
  
 
$
640
  
 
$
2,751
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Carrying value of exposure to loss—Liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Derivative and other contracts
 
$
13
  
 
$
159
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
114
  

 Commitments, guarantees and other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
176
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total carrying value of exposure to loss—Liabilities
 
$
13
  
 
$
159
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
14
  
 
$
290
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Mortgage and asset-backed securitizations include VIE assets as follows: $9.0 billion of residential mortgages; $81.7 billion of commercial mortgages; $19.3 billion of
U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations; and $10.0 billion of other consumer or commercial loans. 


(2)
Mortgage and asset-backed securitizations include VIE debt and equity interests as follows: $0.6 billion of residential mortgages; $1.1 billion of commercial mortgages;
$1.6 billion of U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations; and $0.5 billion of other consumer or commercial loans. 
 









 
181
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
























 
 
At December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Mortgage andAsset-BackedSecuritizations
 
 
CollateralizedDebtObligations
 
 
MunicipalTenderOptionBonds
 
 
OtherStructuredFinancings
 
 
Other
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 VIE assets that the Company does not consolidate (unpaid principal balance)(1)
 
$
172,711
  
 
$
38,332
  
 
$
7,431
  
 
$
2,037
  
 
$
11,262
  

 Maximum exposure to loss:
 



 



 



 



 




 Debt and equity interests(2)
 
$
8,129
  
 
$
1,330
  
 
$
78
  
 
$
1,062
  
 
$
2,678
  

 Derivative and other contracts
 
 
113
  
 
 
942
  
 
 
4,709
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,079
  

 Commitments, guarantees and other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
791
  
 
 
446
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total maximum exposure to loss
 
$
8,242
  
 
$
2,272
  
 
$
4,787
  
 
$
1,853
  
 
$
5,203
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Carrying value of exposure to loss—Assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Debt and equity interests(2)
 
$
8,129
  
 
$
1,330
  
 
$
78
  
 
$
779
  
 
$
2,678
  

 Derivative and other contracts
 
 
113
  
 
 
753
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
551
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total carrying value of exposure to loss—Assets
 
$
8,242
  
 
$
2,083
  
 
$
78
  
 
$
779
  
 
$
3,229
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Carrying value of exposure to loss—Liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Derivative and other contracts
 
$
15
  
 
$
123
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
23
  

 Commitments, guarantees and other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
261
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total carrying value of exposure to loss—Liabilities
 
$
15
  
 
$
123
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
44
  
 
$
284
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Mortgage and asset-backed securitizations include VIE assets as follows: $34.9 billion of residential mortgages; $94.0 billion of commercial mortgages; $28.8 billion of
U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations; and $15.0 billion of other consumer or commercial loans. 


(2)
Mortgage and asset-backed securitizations include VIE debt and equity interests as follows: $1.9 billion of residential mortgages; $2.1 billion of commercial mortgages;
$3.0 billion of U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations; and $1.1 billion of other consumer or commercial loans.   
The Company’s maximum exposure to loss often differs from the carrying value of the VIE’s assets. The maximum exposure to loss is dependent on
the nature of the Company’s variable interest in the VIEs and is limited to the notional amounts of certain liquidity facilities, other credit support, total return swaps, written put options, and the fair value of certain other derivatives and
investments the Company has made in the VIEs. Liabilities issued by VIEs generally are non-recourse to the Company. Where notional amounts are utilized in quantifying maximum exposure related to derivatives, such amounts do not reflect fair value
writedowns already recorded by the Company.    The Company’s
maximum exposure to loss does not include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company may utilize to hedge these risks associated with the Company’s variable interests. In addition, the Company’s maximum exposure
to loss is not reduced by the amount of collateral held as part of a transaction with the VIE or any party to the VIE directly against a specific exposure to loss. 
  Securitization transactions generally involve VIEs. Primarily as a result of
its secondary market-making activities, the Company owned additional securities issued by securitization SPEs for which the maximum exposure to loss is less than specific thresholds. These additional securities totaled $3.2 billion at
December 31, 2011. These securities were either retained in connection with transfers of assets by the Company or acquired in connection with secondary market-making activities. Securities issued by securitization SPEs consist of $0.9

 











 
182
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

billion of securities backed primarily by residential mortgage loans, $0.6 billion of securities backed by U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, $0.8 billion of securities
backed by commercial mortgage loans, $0.6 billion of securities backed by collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations and $0.3 billion backed by other consumer loans, such as credit card receivables, automobile loans and
student loans. The Company’s primary risk exposure is to the securities issued by the SPE owned by the Company, with the risk highest on the most subordinate class of beneficial interests. These securities generally are included in Financial
instruments owned—Corporate and other debt and are measured at fair value. The Company does not provide additional support in these transactions through contractual facilities, such as liquidity facilities, guarantees or similar derivatives.
The Company’s maximum exposure to loss generally equals the fair value of the securities owned.    The Company’s transactions with VIEs primarily include securitizations, municipal tender option bond trusts, credit protection purchased through CLNs, other structured financings, collateralized loan
and debt obligations, equity-linked notes, managed real estate partnerships and asset management investment funds. The Company’s continuing involvement in VIEs that it does not consolidate can include ownership of retained interests in
Company-sponsored transactions, interests purchased in the secondary market (both for Company-sponsored transactions and transactions sponsored by third parties), derivatives with securitization SPEs (primarily interest rate derivatives in
commercial mortgage and residential mortgage securitizations and credit derivatives in which the Company has purchased protection in synthetic CDOs), and as servicer in residential mortgage securitizations in the U.S. and Europe and commercial
mortgage securitizations in Europe. Such activities are further described below.    Securitization Activities.    In a securitization transaction, the Company transfers assets (generally commercial or residential mortgage loans or U.S. agency securities) to an
SPE, sells to investors most of the beneficial interests, such as notes or certificates, issued by the SPE, and in many cases, retains other beneficial interests. In many securitization transactions involving commercial mortgage loans, the Company
transfers a portion of the assets to the SPE with unrelated parties transferring the remaining assets.    The purchase of the transferred assets by the SPE is financed through the sale of these interests. In some of these transactions, primarily involving residential mortgage loans in the U.S. and Europe and
commercial mortgage loans in Europe, the Company serves as servicer for some or all of the transferred loans. In many securitizations, particularly involving residential mortgage loans, the Company also enters into derivative transactions, primarily
interest rate swaps or interest rate caps, with the SPE.    In most
of these transactions, the SPE met the criteria to be classified as a QSPE under the accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010 for the transfer and servicing of financial assets. The Company did not consolidate QSPEs if they met
certain criteria regarding the types of assets and derivatives they held, the activities in which they engaged and the range of discretion they may have exercised in connection with the assets they held. SPEs that formerly met the criteria to be a
QSPE are now subject to the same consolidation requirements as other VIEs.    The primary risk retained by the Company in connection with these transactions generally is limited to the beneficial interests issued by the SPE that are owned by the Company, with the risk highest on
the most subordinate class of beneficial interests. These beneficial interests generally are included in Financial instruments owned—Corporate and other debt and are measured at fair value. The Company does not provide additional support in
these transactions through contractual facilities, such as liquidity facilities, guarantees or similar derivatives.    Although not obligated, the Company generally makes a market in the securities issued by SPEs in these transactions. As a market maker, the Company offers to buy these securities from, and sell these
securities to, 
 









 
183
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

investors. Securities purchased through these market-making activities are not considered to be retained interests, although these beneficial interests generally are included in Financial
instruments owned—Corporate and other debt and are measured at fair value.    The Company enters into derivatives, generally interest rate swaps and interest rate caps with a senior payment priority in many securitization transactions. The risks associated with these and similar
derivatives with SPEs are essentially the same as similar derivatives with non-SPE counterparties and are managed as part of the Company’s overall exposure. 
  See Note 12 for further information on derivative instruments and
hedging activities.    Municipal Tender Option Bond
Trusts.    In a municipal tender option bond transaction, the Company, generally on behalf of a client, transfers a municipal bond to a trust. The trust issues short-term securities that the Company, as the remarketing agent,
sells to investors. The client retains a residual interest. The short-term securities are supported by a liquidity facility pursuant to which the investors may put their short-term interests. In some programs, the Company provides this liquidity
facility; in most programs, a third-party provider will provide such liquidity facility. The Company may purchase short-term securities in its role either as remarketing agent or liquidity provider. The client can generally terminate the transaction
at any time. The liquidity provider can generally terminate the transaction upon the occurrence of certain events. When the transaction is terminated, the municipal bond is generally sold or returned to the client. Any losses suffered by the
liquidity provider upon the sale of the bond are the responsibility of the client. This obligation generally is collateralized. Liquidity facilities provided to municipal tender option bond trusts are classified as derivatives. The Company
consolidates any municipal tender option bond trusts in which it holds the residual interest. No such trusts were consolidated at either December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010.    Credit Protection Purchased Through CLNs.    In a CLN transaction, the Company transfers assets
(generally high quality securities or money market investments) to an SPE, enters into a derivative transaction in which the SPE writes protection on an unrelated reference asset or group of assets, through a credit default swap, a total return swap
or similar instrument, and sells to investors the securities issued by the SPE. In some transactions, the Company may also enter into interest rate or currency swaps with the SPE. Upon the occurrence of a credit event related to the reference asset,
the SPE will deliver collateral securities as the payment to the Company. The Company is generally exposed to price changes on the collateral securities in the event of a credit event and subsequent sale. These transactions are designed to provide
investors with exposure to certain credit risk on the reference asset. In some transactions, the assets and liabilities of the SPE are recognized in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In other transactions, the transfer of the
collateral securities is accounted for as a sale of assets, and the SPE is not consolidated. The structure of the transaction determines the accounting treatment. CLNs are included in Other in the above VIE tables. 
  The derivatives in CLN transactions consist of total return swaps, credit
default swaps or similar contracts in which the Company has purchased protection on a reference asset or group of assets. Payments by the SPE are collateralized. The risks associated with these and similar derivatives with SPEs are essentially the
same as similar derivatives with non-SPE counterparties and are managed as part of the Company’s overall exposure.   
Other Structured Financings.    The Company primarily invests in equity interests issued by entities that
develop and own low-income communities (including low-income housing projects) and entities that construct and own facilities that will generate energy from renewable resources. The equity interests entitle the Company
to its share of tax credits and tax losses generated by these projects. In addition, the Company has issued guarantees to investors in certain low-income housing funds. The guarantees are designed to return an investor’s contribution
to a fund and the investor’s share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by the fund. The Company is also involved with entities designed to provide tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients. 
 











 
184
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Collateralized Loan and Debt Obligations.    A collateralized loan obligation
(“CLO”) or a CDO is an SPE that purchases a pool of assets, consisting of corporate loans, corporate bonds, asset-backed securities or synthetic exposures on similar assets through derivatives, and issues multiple tranches of debt and
equity securities to investors.    Equity-Linked
Notes.    In an equity-linked note transaction included in the tables above, the Company typically transfers to an SPE either (1) a note issued by the Company, the payments on which are linked to the performance of a
specific equity security, equity index or other index or (2) debt securities issued by other companies and a derivative contract, the terms of which will relate to the performance of a specific equity security, equity index or other index.
These transactions are designed to provide investors with exposure to certain risks related to the specific equity security, equity index or other index. Equity-linked notes are included in Other in the above VIE tables. 
  Managed Real Estate Partnerships.    The Company
sponsors funds that invest in real estate assets. Certain of these funds are classified as VIEs primarily because the Company has provided financial support through lending facilities and other means. The Company also serves as the general partner
for these funds and owns limited partnership interests in them. These funds are consolidated at December 31, 2011.   
Asset Management Investment Funds.    The tables above do not include certain investments made by the Company held by entities
qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies.   
Transfers of Assets with Continuing Involvement.   
The following tables present information at December 31, 2011 regarding transactions with SPEs in which the Company, acting as principal, transferred
financial assets with continuing involvement and received sales treatment.   




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
ResidentialMortgageLoans
 
  
CommercialMortgageLoans
 
  
U.S. AgencyCollateralizedMortgageObligations
 
  
Credit-LinkedNotesand Other
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 SPE assets (unpaid principal balance)(1)
  
$
41,977
  
  
$
85,333
  
  
$
33,728
  
  
$
14,315
  

 Retained interests (fair value):
  



  



  



  




 Investment grade
  
$
14
  
  
$
22
  
  
$
1,151
  
  
$
2
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
106
  
  
 
44
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,545
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total retained interests (fair value)
  
$
120
  
  
$
66
  
  
$
1,151
  
  
$
1,547
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interests purchased in the secondary market (fair value):
  



  



  



  




 Investment grade
  
$
45
  
  
$
164
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
411
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
149
  
  
 
82
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interests purchased in the secondary market (fair value)
  
$
194
  
  
$
246
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
422
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Derivative assets (fair value)
  
$
18
  
  
$
1,200
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
223
  

 Derivative liabilities (fair value)
  
$
30
  
  
$
31
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
510
  
  


(1)
Amounts include assets transferred by unrelated transferors. 
 









 
185
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Retained interests (fair value):
  



  



  



  




 Investment grade
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,186
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
1,189
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
—  
  
  
 
74
  
  
 
1,621
  
  
 
1,695
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total retained interests (fair value)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,260
  
  
$
1,624
  
  
$
2,884
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interests purchased in the secondary market (fair value):
  



  



  



  




 Investment grade
  
$
—  
  
  
$
638
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
640
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
—  
  
  
 
126
  
  
 
116
  
  
 
242
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interests purchased in the secondary market (fair value)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
764
  
  
$
118
  
  
$
882
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Derivative assets (fair value)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
869
  
  
$
572
  
  
$
1,441
  

 Derivative liabilities (fair value)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
541
  
  
$
30
  
  
$
571
  
   The following tables present information at
December 31, 2010 regarding transactions with SPEs in which the Company, acting as principal, transferred assets with continuing involvement and received sales treatment.   




















 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
ResidentialMortgageLoans
 
  
CommercialMortgageLoans
 
  
U.S. AgencyCollateralizedMortgageObligations
 
  
Credit-LinkedNotesand Other
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 SPE assets (unpaid principal balance)(1)
  
$
48,947
  
  
$
85,974
  
  
$
29,748
  
  
$
11,462
  

 Retained interests (fair value):
  



  



  



  




 Investment grade
  
$
46
  
  
$
64
  
  
$
2,636
  
  
$
8
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
206
  
  
 
81
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,327
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total retained interests (fair value)
  
$
252
  
  
$
145
  
  
$
2,636
  
  
$
2,335
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interests purchased in the secondary market (fair value):
  



  



  



  




 Investment grade
  
$
118
  
  
$
643
  
  
$
155
  
  
$
21
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
205
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interests purchased in the secondary market (fair value)
  
$
323
  
  
$
698
  
  
$
155
  
  
$
32
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Derivative assets (fair value)
  
$
75
  
  
$
955
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
78
  

 Derivative liabilities (fair value)
  
$
29
  
  
$
80
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
314
  
  


(1)
Amounts include assets transferred by unrelated transferors. 
 











 
186
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 




















 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Retained interests (fair value):
  



  



  



  




 Investment grade
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,732
  
  
$
22
  
  
$
2,754
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
—  
  
  
 
241
  
  
 
2,373
  
  
 
2,614
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total retained interests (fair value)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,973
  
  
$
2,395
  
  
$
5,368
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interests purchased in the secondary market (fair value):
  



  



  



  




 Investment grade
  
$
—  
  
  
$
929
  
  
$
8
  
  
$
937
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
—  
  
  
 
255
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
271
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interests purchased in the secondary market (fair value)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,184
  
  
$
24
  
  
$
1,208
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Derivative assets (fair value)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
887
  
  
$
221
  
  
$
1,108
  

 Derivative liabilities (fair value)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
360
  
  
$
63
  
  
$
423
  
   Transferred assets are carried at fair value
prior to securitization, and any changes in fair value are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The Company may act as underwriter of the beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles. Investment banking underwriting net
revenues are recognized in connection with these transactions. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements
of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income.   
Net gains on sales of assets in securitization transactions at the time of the sale were not material in 2011 and 2010. Net gains at the time of
securitization were $104 million in 2009.    During 2011, 2010 and
2009, the Company received proceeds from new securitization transactions of $22.6 billion, $25.6 billion and $8.6 billion, respectively. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company received proceeds from cash flows from retained interests in
securitization transactions of $6.5 billion, $7.1 billion, and $2.1 billion, respectively.    The Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Company (see Note
13).    Failed Sales. 
  In order to be treated as a sale of assets for accounting purposes, a
transaction must meet all of the criteria stipulated in the accounting guidance for the transfer of financial assets. If the transfer fails to meet these criteria, that transfer of financial assets is treated as a failed sale. In such case, the
Company continues to recognize the assets in Financial instruments owned, and the Company recognizes the associated liabilities in Other secured financings in the consolidated statements of financial condition. 
  The assets transferred to many unconsolidated VIEs in transactions accounted
for as failed sales cannot be removed unilaterally by the Company and are not generally available to the Company. The related liabilities issued by many unconsolidated VIEs are non-recourse to the Company. In certain other failed sale transactions,
the Company has the unilateral right to remove assets or provide additional recourse through derivatives such as total return swaps, guarantees or other forms of involvement. 
 









 
187
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following table presents information about the carrying value of assets and liabilities resulting
from transfers of financial assets treated by the Company as secured financings:   




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Carrying Value of
 
  
Carrying Value of
 

 
  
Assets
 
  
Liabilities
 
  
Assets
 
  
Liabilities
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans
  
$
121
  
  
$
121
  
  
$
128
  
  
$
124
  

 Credit-linked notes
  
 
383
  
  
 
339
  
  
 
784
  
  
 
781
  

 Equity-linked transactions
  
 
1,243
  
  
 
1,214
  
  
 
1,618
  
  
 
1,583
  

 Other
  
 
75
  
  
 
74
  
  
 
62
  
  
 
61
  
   Mortgage Servicing Activities.
   Mortgage Servicing
Rights.    The Company may retain servicing rights to certain mortgage loans that are sold. These transactions create an asset referred to as MSRs, which totaled approximately $133 million and $157 million at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and are included within Intangible assets and carried at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial condition.    SPE Mortgage Servicing Activities.    The Company services residential mortgage loans in the U.S.
and commercial mortgage loans in Europe owned by SPEs, including SPEs sponsored by the Company and SPEs not sponsored by the Company. The Company generally holds retained interests in Company-sponsored SPEs. In some cases, as part of its
market-making activities, the Company may own some beneficial interests issued by both Company-sponsored and non-Company sponsored SPEs.   
The Company provides no credit support as part of its servicing activities. The Company is required to make servicing advances to the extent that it
believes that such advances will be reimbursed. Reimbursement of servicing advances is a senior obligation of the SPE, senior to the most senior beneficial interests outstanding. Outstanding advances are included in Other assets and are recorded at
cost. Advances at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 totaled approximately $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, net of allowance of $14 million and $10 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively.    The following tables present information about the
Company’s mortgage servicing activities for SPEs to which the Company transferred loans at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:   




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
ResidentialMortgageUnconsolidatedSPEs
 
 
ResidentialMortgageConsolidatedSPEs
 
 
CommercialMortgageUnconsolidatedSPEs
 
  
CommercialMortgageConsolidatedSPEs
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets serviced (unpaid principal balance)
  
$
9,821
  
 
$
2,180
  
 
$
5,750
  
  
$
1,596
  

 Amounts past due 90 days or greater
  



 



 



  




 (unpaid principal balance)(1)
  
$
3,087
  
 
$
354
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Percentage of amounts past due 90 days or greater(1)
  
 
31.4
% 
 
 
16.2
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Credit losses
  
$
631
  
 
$
81
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  


(1)
Amount includes loans that are at least 90 days contractually delinquent, loans for which the borrower has filed for bankruptcy, loans in foreclosure and real estate
owned. 
 











 
188
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 




















 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
ResidentialMortgageUnconsolidatedSPEs
 
 
ResidentialMortgageConsolidatedSPEs
 
 
CommercialMortgageUnconsolidatedSPEs
 
  
CommercialMortgageConsolidatedSPEs
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets serviced (unpaid principal balance)
  
$
10,616
  
 
$
2,357
  
 
$
7,108
  
  
$
2,097
  

 Amounts past due 90 days or greater (unpaid principal balance)(1)
  
$
3,861
  
 
$
446
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Percentage of amounts past due 90 days or greater(1)
  
 
36.4
% 
 
 
18.9
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Credit losses
  
$
1,098
  
 
$
35
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  


(1)
Amount includes loans that are at least 90 days contractually delinquent, loans for which the borrower has filed for bankruptcy, loans in foreclosure and real estate
owned.    The Company also serviced residential and
commercial mortgage loans for SPEs sponsored by unrelated parties with unpaid principal balances totaling $11 billion and $13 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. 
  The agreement to sell Saxon includes MSRs which totaled approximately $119
million at December 31, 2011. After the completion of this sale, the Company will retain the servicing rights for residential mortgage loans for SPEs with an unpaid principal balance of approximately $872 million (see Notes 1 and 25).
   8.    Financing Receivables.
   Loans held for investment. 
  The Company’s loans held for investment are recorded at amortized cost
and classified as Loans in the consolidated statements of financial condition. A description of the Company’s loan portfolio is described below.   


 
•
 
 Commercial and Industrial. Commercial and industrial loans include commercial lending, corporate lending and commercial asset-backed lending
products. Risk factors considered in determining the allowance for commercial and industrial loans include the borrower’s financial strength, seniority of the loan, collateral type, volatility of collateral value, debt cushion, covenants and
(for unsecured loans) counterparty type.   


 
•
 
 Consumer. Consumer loans include unsecured loans and non-purpose securities-based lending that allows clients to borrow money against the value
of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying marketable securities or refinancing margin debt. The allowance methodology for unsecured loans considers the specific attributes of the loan as well as
borrower’s source of repayment. The allowance methodology for non-purpose securities-based lending considers the collateral type underlying the loan (e.g., diversified securities, concentrated securities, or restricted stock).
  


 
•
 
 Real Estate—Residential. Residential real estate loans include home equity lines of credit and non-conforming loans. The allowance
methodology for nonconforming residential mortgage loans considers several factors, including but not limited to loan-to-value ratio, a FICO score, home price index, and delinquency status. The methodology for home equity loans considers credit
limits and utilization rates in addition to the factors considered for nonconforming residential mortgages.   


 
•
 
 Real Estate—Wholesale. Wholesale real estate loans include owner-occupied loans and income-producing loans. The principal risk factor for
determining the allowance for wholesale real estate loans is the underlying collateral type, which is affected by the time period to liquidate the collateral and the volatility in collateral values. 
 









 
189
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The Company’s loans held for investment at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010
included the following:   












 
  
AtDecember 
31,2011
 
  
AtDecember 
31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Commercial and industrial
  
$
5,083
  
  
$
4,054
  

 Consumer loans
  
 
5,170
  
  
 
3,974
  

 Residential real estate loans
  
 
4,674
  
  
 
1,915
  

 Wholesale real estate loans
  
 
328
  
  
 
468
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans held for investment(1)
  
$
15,255
  
  
$
10,411
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Amounts are net of allowances of $17 million and $82 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. 
  The above table does not include loans held for sale of $114 million and
$165 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.    The Company’s Credit Risk Management Department evaluates new obligors before credit transactions are initially approved, and at least annually thereafter for consumer and industrial loans. For
corporate and commercial loans, credit evaluations typically involve the evaluation of financial statements, assessment of leverage, liquidity, capital strength, asset composition and quality, market capitalization and access to capital markets,
cash flow projections and debt service requirements, and the adequacy of collateral, if applicable. The Company’s Credit Risk Management Department will also evaluate strategy, market position, industry dynamics, obligor’s management
and other factors that could affect the obligor’s risk profile. For residential real estate and consumer loans, the initial credit evaluation includes, but is not limited to review of the obligor’s income, net worth, liquidity,
collateral, loan-to-value ratio, and credit bureau information. Subsequent credit monitoring for residential real estate loans is performed at the portfolio level and for consumer loans collateral, values are monitored on an ongoing basis.
   The Company utilizes the following credit quality indictors in
its credit monitoring process.   


 
•
 
 Pass. A credit exposure rated pass has a continued expectation of timely repayment, all obligations of the borrower are current, and the obligor
complies with material terms and conditions of the lending agreement.   


 
•
 
 Special Mention. Extensions of credit that have potential weakness that deserve management’s close attention and if left uncorrected may,
at some future date, result in the deterioration of the repayment prospects for the credit. These potential weaknesses may be due to circumstances such as the borrower experiencing negative operating trends, having an ill-proportioned balance sheet,
experiencing problems with management or labor relations, experiencing pending litigation, or there are concerns about the condition or control over collateral. 
 


 
•
 
 Substandard. Obligor has a well-defined weakness that jeopardizes the repayment of the debt and has a high probability of payment default with
the distinct possibility that the Company will sustain some loss if noted deficiencies are not corrected. Indicators of a substandard loan include that the obligor is experiencing current or anticipated unprofitable operations, inadequate fixed
charge coverage, and inadequate liquidity to support operations or meet obligations when they come due or marginal capitalization.   
Consumer loans are considered substandard when they are past due 90 cumulative days from the contractual due date. Residential real estate
and home equity loans are considered substandard when they 
 











 
190
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

are past due more than 90 days and have a loan-to-value ratio greater than 60%, except for home equity loans where the Company does not hold a senior mortgage, which are considered substandard
when past due 90 days or more regardless of loan-to-value ratio.   


 
•
 
 Doubtful. Inherent weakness in the exposure makes the collection or repayment in full, based on existing facts, conditions and circumstances,
highly improbable, but the amount of loss is uncertain. The obligor may demonstrate inadequate liquidity, insufficient capital or lack of necessary resources to continue as a going concern or may be in default. 
 


 
•
 
 Loss. Extensions of credit classified as loss are considered uncollectible and are charged off. 
  At December 31, 2011, the Company collectively evaluated for impairment
gross commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, residential real estate loans and wholesale real estate loans of $4,934 million, $5,072 million, $4,675 million and $278 million, respectively. The Company individually evaluated for impairment
gross commercial and industrial loans, consumer and wholesale real estate loans of $163 million, $100 million and $50 million, respectively. Commercial and industrial loans of approximately $33 million and wholesale real estate loans of
approximately $50 million were impaired at December 31, 2011. Approximately 99% of the Company’s loan portfolio was current at December 31, 2011.   
At December 31, 2010, the Company collectively evaluated for impairment gross commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, residential real
estate loans and wholesale real estate loans of $3,791 million, $3,890 million, $1,915 million and $90 million, respectively. The Company individually evaluated for impairment gross commercial and industrial loans, consumer and wholesale real estate
loans of $307 million, $85 million and $415 million, respectively. Commercial and industrial loans of approximately $170 million and wholesale real estate loans of approximately $108 million were impaired at December 31, 2010. Approximately 99%
of the Company’s loan portfolio was current at December 31, 2010.    The Company assigned an internal grade of “doubtful” to certain commercial asset-backed and wholesale real estate loans totaling $87 million and $500 million at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively. Doubtful loans can be classified as current if the borrower is making payments in accordance with the loan agreement. The Company assigned an internal grade of “pass” to the majority of the remaining
loans.    Employee Loans. 
  Employee loans are granted primarily in conjunction with a program
established in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment to retain and recruit certain employees. These loans are recorded in Receivables—Fees, interest and other in the consolidated statements of financial condition. These loans are
full recourse, require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from four to 12 years. The Company establishes a reserve for loan amounts it does not consider recoverable from terminated employees, which is recorded in Compensation and
benefits expense. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $5,590 million of employee loans, net of an allowance of approximately $119 million. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $5,831 million of employee loans, net of an allowance of
approximately $111 million.    Collateralized Transactions.
   In certain instances, the Company enters into reverse
repurchase agreements and securities borrowed transactions to acquire securities to cover short positions, to settle other securities obligations and to accommodate customers’ needs. The Company also engages in securities financing transactions
for customers through margin lending (see Note 6). 
 









 
191
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Servicing Advances. 
  As part of its servicing activities, the Company is required to make
servicing advances to the extent that it believes that such advances will be reimbursed (see Note 7).    9.    Goodwill and Net Intangible Assets.    The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is
generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying
value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a
reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more likely than not the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are derived based on valuation techniques the
Company believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are generally determined utilizing methodologies that incorporate price-to-book, price-to-earnings and assets under
management multiples of certain comparable companies. The Company also utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology for certain reporting units.   
The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment testing at July 1, 2011 and July 1, 2010. The Company’s testing did not indicate any
goodwill impairment. Due to the volatility in the equity markets, the economic outlook and the Company’s common shares trading below book value during the quarters in 2011, the Company performed additional impairment testing, which did not
result in any goodwill impairment. Adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.   
Goodwill.   
Changes in the carrying amount of the Company’s goodwill, net of accumulated impairment losses for 2011 and 2010, were as follows: 
 




















 
  
InstitutionalSecurities
 
 
GlobalWealthManagementGroup
 
 
AssetManagement
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Goodwill at December 31, 2009(1)
  
$
373
  
 
$
5,618
  
 
$
1,171
  
 
$
7,162
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments and other
  
 
10
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8
  

 Goodwill disposed of during the period(2)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(404
) 
 
 
(404
) 

 Impairment losses(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(27
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Goodwill at December 31, 2010(4)
  
$
383
  
 
$
5,616
  
 
$
740
  
 
$
6,739
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments and other
  
 
(53
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(53
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Goodwill at December 31, 2011(4)
  
$
330
  
 
$
5,616
  
 
$
740
  
 
$
6,686
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
The Asset Management business segment amount at December 31, 2009 included approximately $404 million related to Retail Asset Management. 


(2)
The Asset Management activity represents goodwill disposed of in connection with the sale of Retail Asset Management (see Notes 1 and 25) 


(3)
The Asset Management activity represents impairment losses related to FrontPoint (see Note 24 for further information on FrontPoint). 


(4)
The amount of the Company’s goodwill before accumulated impairments of $700 million, which included $673 million related to the Institutional Securities business
segment and $27 million related to the Asset Management business segment, was $7,386 million and $7,439 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. 
 











 
192
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Net Intangible Assets.    Changes in the carrying amount of the Company’s intangible assets for 2011 and 2010 were as follows: 
 




















 
  
InstitutionalSecurities
 
 
GlobalWealthManagementGroup
 
 
AssetManagement
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Amortizable net intangible assets at December 31, 2009
  
$
161
  
 
$
4,292
  
 
$
184
  
 
$
4,637
  

 Mortgage servicing rights (see Note 7)
  
 
135
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
137
  

 Indefinite-lived intangible assets (see Note 3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net intangible assets at December 31, 2009
  
$
296
  
 
$
4,574
  
 
$
184
  
 
$
5,054
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortizable net intangible assets at December 31, 2009
  
$
161
  
 
$
4,292
  
 
$
184
  
 
$
4,637
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments and other
  
 
6
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7
  

 Amortization expense
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
(324
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(356
) 

 Impairment losses(1)
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(166
) 
 
 
(174
) 

 Intangible assets acquired during the year(2)
  
 
122
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
122
  

 Intangible assets disposed of during the period
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(6
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortizable net intangible assets at December 31, 2010
  
$
262
  
 
 
3,963
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
4,230
  

 Mortgage servicing rights (see Note 7)
  
 
151
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
157
  

 Indefinite-lived intangible assets (see Note 3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net intangible assets at December 31, 2010
  
$
413
  
 
$
4,249
  
 
$
5
  
 
$
4,667
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortizable net intangible assets at December 31, 2010
  
$
262
  
 
$
3,963
  
 
$
5
  
 
$
4,230
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments and other
  
 
(10
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10
) 

 Amortization expense
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
(322
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(345
) 

 Impairment losses(1)
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(7
) 

 Intangible assets acquired during the period
  
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5
  

 Intangible assets disposed of during the period
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortizable net intangible assets at December 31, 2011
  
 
229
  
 
 
3,641
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
3,872
  

 Mortgage servicing rights (see Note 7)
  
 
122
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
133
  

 Indefinite-lived intangible assets (see Note 3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net intangible assets at December 31, 2011
  
$
351
  
 
$
3,932
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
4,285
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses and Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income. The Asset Management business segment activity
represents losses primarily related to investment management contracts that were determined using discounted cash flow models (see Note 19). 


(2)
The Institutional Securities business segment activity primarily represents certain reinsurance licenses and a management contract. 
 









 
193
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Amortizable intangible assets were as follows: 
 




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Amortizable intangible assets:
  



  



  



  




 Trademarks
  
$
59
  
  
$
13
  
  
$
63
  
  
$
13
  

 Customer relationships
  
 
4,063
  
  
 
673
  
  
 
4,059
  
  
 
415
  

 Management contracts
  
 
313
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
347
  
  
 
75
  

 Research
  
 
176
  
  
 
91
  
  
 
176
  
  
 
56
  

 Other
  
 
171
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
190
  
  
 
46
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total amortizable intangible assets
  
$
4,782
  
  
$
910
  
  
$
4,835
  
  
$
605
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Amortization expense associated with
intangible assets is estimated to be approximately $319 million per year over the next five years.    10.    Deposits.    Deposits were as follows:   












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011(1)
 
  
AtDecember 31,2010(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Savings and demand deposits(2)
  
$
63,029
  
  
$
59,856
  

 Time deposits(3)
  
 
2,633
  
  
 
3,956
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
65,662
  
  
$
63,812
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Total deposits subject to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were $52 billion and $48
billion, respectively. 


(2)
Amounts include non-interest bearing deposits of $1,270 million and $30 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.



(3)
Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 4).    The weighted average interest rates of interest bearing deposits outstanding during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 0.4%, 0.5% and
1.3%, respectively.    At December 31, 2011, interest-bearing
deposits maturing over the next five years were as follows (dollars in millions):   








 Year
 

 2012(1)
  
$
62,865
  

 2013
  
 
1,332
  

 2014
  
 
195
  

 2015
  
 
—  
  

 2016
  
 
—  
  
  


(1)
Amount includes approximately $62 billion of savings deposits, which have no stated maturity and approximately $1 billion of time deposits. 
 











 
194
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had $522 million and $805 million,
respectively, of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more.    11.    Borrowings and Other Secured Financings.   
Commercial Paper and Other Short-Term Borrowings.   
The table below summarizes certain information regarding commercial paper and other short-term borrowings: 
 












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Commercial Paper(1):
  



 




 Balance at period-end
  
$
978
  
 
$
945
  

 Average balance(2)
  
$
899
  
 
$
866
  

 Weighted average interest rate on period-end balance
  
 
2.7
% 
 
 
2.5
% 





 Other Short-Term Borrowings(3)(4):
  



 




 Balance at period-end
  
$
1,865
  
 
$
2,311
  

 Average balance(2)
  
$
2,276
  
 
$
2,697
  
  


(1)
At December 31, 2011, the majority of the commercial paper balance was issued as part of client transactions and is not used for the Company’s general funding
purposes. 


(2)
Average balances are calculated based upon weekly balances. 


(3)
These borrowings included bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with original maturities of 12 months or less. 


(4)
Certain structured short-term borrowings are carried at fair value under the fair value option. See Note 4 for additional information. 
  Long-Term Borrowings. 
  Maturities and Terms.    Long-term
borrowings consisted of the following (dollars in millions):   




























 
  
Parent Company
 
 
Subsidiaries
 
 
AtDecember 
31,2011(3)(4)(5)
 
 
AtDecember 31,2010(3)
 

 
  
FixedRate
 
 
VariableRate(1)(2)
 
 
FixedRate
 
 
VariableRate(1)(2)
 
 
 

 Due in 2011
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
26,911
  

 Due in 2012
  
 
13,556
  
 
 
20,255
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
1,241
  
 
 
35,082
  
 
 
37,865
  

 Due in 2013
  
 
6,105
  
 
 
18,359
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
538
  
 
 
25,018
  
 
 
25,478
  

 Due in 2014
  
 
12,158
  
 
 
8,335
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
975
  
 
 
21,484
  
 
 
17,703
  

 Due in 2015
  
 
13,309
  
 
 
4,605
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
3,958
  
 
 
21,888
  
 
 
21,026
  

 Due in 2016
  
 
9,696
  
 
 
7,861
  
 
 
80
  
 
 
1,390
  
 
 
19,027
  
 
 
9,096
  

 Thereafter
  
 
43,324
  
 
 
17,198
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
914
  
 
 
61,735
  
 
 
54,378
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
98,148
  
 
$
76,613
  
 
$
457
  
 
$
9,016
  
 
$
184,234
  
 
$
192,457
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average coupon at period-end(6)
  
 
5.1
% 
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
6.5
% 
 
 
4.5
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
3.8
% 
  


(1)
Floating rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of money market indices, including LIBOR and Federal Funds rates. 


(2)
Amounts include borrowings that are equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index. 


(3)
Amounts include long-term borrowings issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”). 


(4)
Amounts include an increase of approximately $6.3 billion at December 31, 2011, to the carrying amount of certain of the Company’s long-term borrowings
associated with fair value hedges. The increase to the carrying value associated with fair value hedges by year due was approximately less than $0.1 billion due in 2012, $0.3 billion due in 2013, $0.5 billion due in 2014, $0.8 billion due in 2015,
$0.7 billion due in 2016 and $4.0 billion due thereafter. 


(5)
Amounts include a decrease of approximately $2.5 billion at December 31, 2011 to the carrying amounts of certain of the Company’s long-term borrowings for
which the fair value option was elected (see Note 4). 


(6)
Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing U.S. and non-U.S. dollar interest rates and excludes financial instruments for which the fair value option was elected.

 









 
195
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The Company’s long-term borrowings included the following components: 
 












 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Senior debt
  
$
175,471
  
  
$
183,514
  

 Subordinated debt
  
 
3,910
  
  
 
4,126
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
  
 
4,853
  
  
 
4,817
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
184,234
  
  
$
192,457
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   During 2011, the Company issued notes with a
principal amount of approximately $33 billion. During 2011, approximately $39 billion of notes were repaid.    During 2010, the Company issued notes with a principal amount of approximately $33 billion. During 2010, approximately $34 billion of notes were repaid, which includes $5,579 million of junior
subordinated debentures related to CIC that were redeemed in August 2010 (see Note 15).    Senior debt securities often are denominated in various non-U.S. dollar currencies and may be structured to provide a return that is equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other
index (e.g., the consumer price index). Senior debt also may be structured to be callable by the Company or extendible at the option of holders of the senior debt securities. Debt containing provisions that effectively allow the holders to
put or extend the notes aggregated $1,179 million at December 31, 2011 and $947 million at December 31, 2010. In addition, separate agreements are entered into by the Company’s subsidiaries that effectively allow the holders
to put the notes aggregated $2,234 million at December 31, 2011 and $438 million at December 31, 2010. Subordinated debt and junior subordinated debentures generally are issued to meet the capital requirements of the Company or its
regulated subsidiaries and primarily are U.S. dollar denominated.   
Senior Debt—Structured Borrowings.    The Company’s index-linked, equity-linked or credit-linked borrowings
include various structured instruments whose payments and redemption values are linked to the performance of a specific index (e.g., Standard & Poor’s 500), a basket of stocks, a specific equity security, a credit exposure or
basket of credit exposures. To minimize the exposure resulting from movements in the underlying index, equity, credit or other position, the Company has entered into various swap contracts and purchased options that effectively convert the borrowing
costs into floating rates based upon LIBOR. These instruments are included in the preceding table at their redemption values based on the performance of the underlying indices, baskets of stocks, or specific equity securities, credit or other
position or index. The Company carries either the entire structured borrowing at fair value or bifurcates the embedded derivative and carries it at fair value. The swaps and purchased options used to economically hedge the embedded features are
derivatives and also are carried at fair value. Changes in fair value related to the notes and economic hedges are reported in Principal transactions—Trading revenues. 
  Subordinated Debt and Junior Subordinated
Debentures.    Included in the Company’s long-term borrowings are subordinated notes of $3,910 million having a contractual weighted average coupon of 4.77% at December 31, 2011 and $4,126 million having a
weighted average coupon of 4.79% at December 31, 2010. Junior subordinated debentures outstanding by the Company were $4,853 million at December 31, 2011 and $4,817 million at December 31, 2010 having a contractual weighted average
coupon of 6.37% at December 31, 2011 and 6.37% at December 31, 2010. Maturities of the subordinated and junior subordinated notes range from 2014 to 2067. Maturities of certain junior subordinated debentures can be extended to 2052 at the
Company’s option. 
 











 
196
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Asset and Liability Management.    In general, securities inventories
not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. Fixed assets are generally financed with
fixed rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to more closely match these borrowings to the duration, holding period and interest rate characteristics of the assets being funded and to manage interest rate risk. These swaps
effectively convert certain of the Company’s fixed rate borrowings into floating rate obligations. In addition, for non-U.S. dollar currency borrowings that are not used to fund assets in the same currency, the Company has entered into currency
swaps that effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations. The Company’s use of swaps for asset and liability management affected its effective average borrowing rate as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted average coupon of long-term borrowings at period-end(1)
  
 
4.0
% 
 
 
3.6
% 
 
 
3.7
% 

 Effective average borrowing rate for long-term borrowings after swaps at period-end(1)
  
 
1.9
% 
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
2.3
% 
  


(1)
Included in the weighted average and effective average calculations are non-U.S. dollar interest rates. 
  Other.    The Company, through several of
its subsidiaries, maintains funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan,
structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.    FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.    At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had long-term debt outstanding of $12.1 billion and $21.3 billion, respectively, under the TLGP. The issuance of debt under the TLPG
expired on December 31, 2010, but the existing long-term debt outstanding is guaranteed until June 30, 2012. These borrowings are senior unsecured debt obligations of the Company and guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP. The FDIC has
concluded that the guarantee is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.    Other Secured Financings.    Other secured financings include the liabilities related to transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales, consolidated VIEs where the Company is deemed to be the
primary beneficiary, pledged commodities, certain equity-linked notes and other secured borrowings. See Note 7 for further information on other secured financings related to variable interest entities and securitization activities. 
  The Company’s other secured financings consisted of the following:
  












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Secured financings with original maturities greater than one year
  
$
18,696
  
  
$
7,398
  

 Secured financings with original maturities one year or less(1)
  
 
275
  
  
 
506
  

 Failed sales(2)
  
 
1,748
  
  
 
2,549
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total(3)
  
$
20,719
  
  
$
10,453
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
At December 31, 2011, amount included approximately $275 million of variable rate financings. 


(2)
For more information on failed sales, see Note 7. 


(3)
Amounts include $14,594 million at fair value at December 31, 2011 and $8,490 million at fair value at December 31, 2010. 
 









 
197
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Maturities and Terms:    Secured financings with original maturities
greater than one year consisted of the following:   




















 
  
FixedRate
 
 
VariableRate(1)(2)
 
 
AtDecember 31,2011
 
 
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Due in 2011
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3,207
  

 Due in 2012
  
 
1,106
  
 
 
6,755
  
 
 
7,861
  
 
 
100
  

 Due in 2013
  
 
2,000
  
 
 
2,849
  
 
 
4,849
  
 
 
534
  

 Due in 2014
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,765
  
 
 
1,765
  
 
 
14
  

 Due in 2015
  
 
29
  
 
 
1,065
  
 
 
1,094
  
 
 
577
  

 Due in 2016
  
 
—  
  
 
 
384
  
 
 
384
  
 
 
24
  

 Thereafter
  
 
1,034
  
 
 
1,709
  
 
 
2,743
  
 
 
2,942
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,169
  
 
$
14,527
  
 
$
18,696
  
 
$
7,398
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average coupon rate at period-end(3)
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
1.4
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
  


(1)
Variable rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of indices including LIBOR. 


(2)
Amounts include borrowings that are equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index. 


(3)
Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing U.S. and non-U.S. dollar interest rates and excludes secured financings that are linked to non-interest indices.
   Maturities and
Terms:    Failed sales consisted of the following:   












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Due in 2011
  
$
—  
  
  
$
50
  

 Due in 2012
  
 
784
  
  
 
182
  

 Due in 2013
  
 
785
  
  
 
1,687
  

 Due in 2014
  
 
5
  
  
 
382
  

 Due in 2015
  
 
29
  
  
 
23
  

 Due in 2016
  
 
127
  
  
 
169
  

 Thereafter
  
 
18
  
  
 
56
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,748
  
  
$
2,549
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   For more information on failed sales see Note
7.    12.    Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities.    The Company trades, makes markets and
takes proprietary positions globally in listed futures, OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S.
and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indices, asset-backed security indices, property indices, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, and real estate loan products. The Company uses these instruments
for trading, foreign currency exposure management and asset and liability management.    The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the
purchase or sale of 
 











 
198
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). The Company manages the market risk
associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis.   
The Company’s derivative products consist of the following:   




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Assets
 
  
Liabilities
 
  
Assets
 
  
Liabilities
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Exchange traded derivative products
  
$
4,103
  
  
$
4,969
  
  
$
6,099
  
  
$
8,553
  

 OTC derivative products
  
 
43,961
  
  
 
41,484
  
  
 
45,193
  
  
 
39,249
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
48,064
  
  
$
46,453
  
  
$
51,292
  
  
$
47,802
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The Company incurs credit risk as a dealer in
OTC derivatives. Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The Company’s exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the
fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. The fair value of a derivative represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between market participants and is further described in Notes 2
and 4.    In connection with its derivative activities, the
Company generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to offset a counterparty’s rights and obligations, request additional collateral when
necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default.    The tables below present a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of OTC derivatives in a gain position at December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010, respectively. Fair value is presented in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and U.S. government and agency securities):   
OTC Derivative Products—Financial Instruments Owned at December 31, 2011(1) 
 
































 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Cross-Maturityand Cash
CollateralNetting(3)
 
 
NetExposurePost-Cash
Collateral
 
  
NetExposurePost-Collateral

 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  

 
  
Years to Maturity
 
  
 
  

 Credit Rating(2)
  
Less than 1
 
  
1-3
 
  
3-5
 
  
Over 5
 
  
 
  

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 AAA
  
$
621
  
  
$
1,615
  
  
$
1,586
  
  
$
10,375
  
  
$
(7,513
) 
 
$
6,684
  
  
$
6,389
  

 AA
  
 
5,578
  
  
 
7,547
  
  
 
5,972
  
  
 
21,068
  
  
 
(31,074
) 
 
 
9,091
  
  
 
7,048
  

 A
  
 
7,576
  
  
 
5,538
  
  
 
10,224
  
  
 
27,417
  
  
 
(41,608
) 
 
 
9,147
  
  
 
7,117
  

 BBB
  
 
4,437
  
  
 
4,448
  
  
 
3,231
  
  
 
17,758
  
  
 
(17,932
) 
 
 
11,942
  
  
 
10,337
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
2,819
  
  
 
2,949
  
  
 
2,703
  
  
 
5,084
  
  
 
(6,458
) 
 
 
7,097
  
  
 
4,158
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
21,031
  
  
$
22,097
  
  
$
23,716
  
  
$
81,702
  
  
$
(104,585
) 
 
$
43,961
  
  
$
35,049
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Fair values shown represent the Company’s net exposure to counterparties related to the Company’s OTC derivative products. Amounts include centrally cleared
OTC derivatives. The table does not include listed derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the Company. 


(2)
Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department. 


(3)
Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances with
the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 
 









 
199
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
OTC Derivative Products—Financial Instruments Owned at December 31, 2010(1)
  
































 
 
Years to Maturity
 
 
Cross-MaturityandCash CollateralNetting(3)
 
 
Net ExposurePost-CashCollateral
 
 
Net ExposurePost-Collateral
 

 Credit Rating(2)
 
Less than 1
 
 
1 - 3
 
 
3 - 5
 
 
Over 5
 
 
 
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 AAA
 
$
802
  
 
$
2,005
  
 
$
1,242
  
 
$
8,823
  
 
$
(5,906
) 
 
$
6,966
  
 
$
6,683
  

 AA
 
 
6,601
  
 
 
6,760
  
 
 
5,589
  
 
 
17,844
  
 
 
(27,801
) 
 
 
8,993
  
 
 
7,877
  

 A
 
 
8,655
  
 
 
8,710
  
 
 
6,507
  
 
 
26,492
  
 
 
(36,397
) 
 
 
13,967
  
 
 
12,383
  

 BBB
 
 
2,982
  
 
 
4,109
  
 
 
2,124
  
 
 
7,347
  
 
 
(9,034
) 
 
 
7,528
  
 
 
6,001
  

 Non-investment grade
 
 
2,628
  
 
 
3,231
  
 
 
1,779
  
 
 
4,456
  
 
 
(4,355
) 
 
 
7,739
  
 
 
5,348
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
21,668
  
 
$
24,815
  
 
$
17,241
  
 
$
64,962
  
 
$
(83,493
) 
 
$
45,193
  
 
$
38,292
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Fair values shown represent the Company’s net exposure to counterparties related to the Company’s OTC derivative products. Amounts include centrally cleared
OTC derivatives. The table does not include listed derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the Company. 


(2)
Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department. 


(3)
Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances with
the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 
  Hedge Accounting. 
  The Company applies hedge accounting using various derivative financial
instruments to hedge interest rate and foreign exchange risk arising from assets and liabilities not held at fair value as part of asset and liability management and foreign currency exposure management. 
  The Company’s hedges are designated and qualify for accounting purposes
as one of the following types of hedges: hedges of exposure to changes in fair value of assets and liabilities being hedged (fair value hedges) and hedges of net investments in foreign operations whose functional currency is different from the
reporting currency of the parent company (net investment hedges).   
For all hedges where hedge accounting is being applied, effectiveness testing and other procedures to ensure the ongoing validity of the hedges are
performed at least monthly.    Fair Value Hedges—Interest
Rate Risk.    The Company’s designated fair value hedges consisted primarily of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate senior long-term borrowings.
The Company uses regression analysis to perform an ongoing prospective and retrospective assessment of the effectiveness of these hedging relationships (i.e., the Company applies the “long-haul” method of hedge accounting). A
hedging relationship is deemed effective if the fair values of the hedging instrument (derivative) and the hedged item (debt liability) change inversely within a range of 80% to 125%. The Company considers the impact of valuation adjustments related
to the Company’s own credit spreads and counterparty credit spreads to determine whether they would cause the hedging relationship to be ineffective.   
For qualifying fair value hedges of benchmark interest rates, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the
hedged liability provide offset of one another and, together with any resulting ineffectiveness, are recorded in Interest expense. When a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, any basis adjustment remaining on the hedged liability is amortized to
Interest expense over the remaining life of the liability using the effective interest method. 
 











 
200
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Net Investment Hedges.    The Company may utilize forward foreign
exchange contracts to manage the currency exposure relating to its net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations. No hedge ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings since the notional amounts of the hedging instruments equal the
portion of the investments being hedged and the currencies being exchanged are the functional currencies of the parent and investee. The gain or loss from revaluing hedges of net investments in foreign operations at the spot rate is deferred and
reported within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Total Equity, net of tax effects. The forward points on the hedging instruments are recorded in Interest income. 
  The following tables summarize the fair value of derivative instruments
designated as accounting hedges and the fair value of derivative instruments not designated as accounting hedges by type of derivative contract on a gross basis. Fair values of derivative contracts in an asset position are included in Financial
instruments owned—Derivative and other contracts. Fair values of derivative contracts in a liability position are reflected in Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased—Derivative and other contracts. 
 




















 
  
Assets atDecember 31,
2011
 
  
Liabilities atDecember 31,
2011
 

 
  
Fair Value
 
 
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 
 
Notional
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Derivatives designated as accounting hedges:
  



 



  



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
$
8,151
  
 
$
71,706
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
348
  
 
 
12,222
  
  
 
57
  
 
 
7,111
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives designated as accounting hedges
  
 
8,499
  
 
 
83,928
  
  
 
57
  
 
 
7,111
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivatives not designated as accounting hedges(1):
  



 



  



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
 
904,725
  
 
 
21,099,876
  
  
 
880,027
  
 
 
21,005,733
  

 Credit contracts
  
 
138,791
  
 
 
2,466,623
  
  
 
130,726
  
 
 
2,428,042
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
61,995
  
 
 
1,582,364
  
  
 
64,691
  
 
 
1,604,493
  

 Equity contracts
  
 
46,287
  
 
 
603,290
  
  
 
48,286
  
 
 
595,146
  

 Commodity contracts
  
 
39,778
  
 
 
411,661
  
  
 
39,998
  
 
 
374,594
  

 Other
  
 
598
  
 
 
11,662
  
  
 
2,275
  
 
 
24,905
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives not designated as accounting hedges
  
 
1,192,174
  
 
 
26,175,476
  
  
 
1,166,003
  
 
 
26,032,913
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives
  
$
1,200,673
  
 
$
26,259,404
  
  
$
1,166,060
  
 
$
26,040,024
  

 Cash collateral netting
  
 
(77,938
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(44,936
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Counterparty netting
  
 
(1,074,671
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,074,671
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives
  
$
48,064
  
 
$
26,259,404
  
  
$
46,453
  
 
$
26,040,024
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Notional amounts include net notionals related to long and short futures contracts of $77 billion and $66 billion, respectively. The variation margin on these futures
contracts (excluded from the table above) of $605 million and $37 million is included in Receivables—Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations and Payables—Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, respectively, on the consolidated
statements of financial condition. 
 









 
201
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 




















 
  
Assets atDecember 31,
2010
 
  
Liabilities atDecember 31,
2010
 

 
  
Fair Value
 
 
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 
 
Notional
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Derivatives designated as accounting hedges:
  



 



  



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
$
5,250
  
 
$
68,212
  
  
$
177
  
 
$
7,989
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
64
  
 
 
5,119
  
  
 
420
  
 
 
14,408
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives designated as accounting hedges
  
 
5,314
  
 
 
73,331
  
  
 
597
  
 
 
22,397
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivatives not designated as accounting hedges(1):
  



 



  



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
 
615,717
  
 
 
16,305,214
  
  
 
595,626
  
 
 
16,267,730
  

 Credit contracts
  
 
110,134
  
 
 
2,398,676
  
  
 
95,626
  
 
 
2,239,211
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
61,924
  
 
 
1,418,488
  
  
 
64,268
  
 
 
1,431,651
  

 Equity contracts
  
 
39,846
  
 
 
571,767
  
  
 
46,160
  
 
 
568,399
  

 Commodity contracts
  
 
64,152
  
 
 
420,534
  
  
 
65,728
  
 
 
414,535
  

 Other
  
 
243
  
 
 
6,635
  
  
 
1,568
  
 
 
16,910
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives not designated as accounting hedges
  
 
892,016
  
 
 
21,121,314
  
  
 
868,976
  
 
 
20,938,436
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives
  
$
897,330
  
 
$
21,194,645
  
  
$
869,573
  
 
$
20,960,833
  

 Cash collateral netting
  
 
(61,856
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(37,589
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Counterparty netting
  
 
(784,182
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(784,182
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives
  
$
51,292
  
 
$
21,194,645
  
  
$
47,802
  
 
$
20,960,833
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Notional amounts include net notionals related to long and short futures contracts of $71 billion and $76 billion, respectively. The variation margin on these futures
contracts (excluded from the table above) of $387 million and $1 million is included in Receivables—Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations and Payables—Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, respectively, on the consolidated
statements of financial condition.    The following
tables summarize the gains or losses reported on derivative instruments designated and qualifying as accounting hedges for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges.   
The following table presents gains (losses) reported on derivative instruments and the related hedge item as well as the hedge ineffectiveness included in
Interest expense in the consolidated statements of income from interest rate contracts:   
















 
  
Gains (Losses) Recognized
 

 Product Type
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Derivatives
  
$
3,415
  
 
$
1,257
  
 
$
(2,696
) 

 Borrowings
  
 
(2,549
) 
 
 
(604
) 
 
 
3,013
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
866
  
 
$
653
  
 
$
317
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 











 
202
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Derivatives Designated as Net Investment Hedges. 
 
















 
  
Gains (Losses)Recognized inOCI (effective portion)
 

 Product Type
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Foreign exchange contracts(1)
  
$
180
  
  
$
(285
) 
 
$
(278
) 

 Debt instruments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(192
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
180
  
  
$
(285
) 
 
$
(470
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Losses of $220 million, $147 million and $151 million were recognized in income related to amounts excluded from hedge effectiveness testing during 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.    The table below summarizes gains
(losses) on derivative instruments not designated as accounting hedges for 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















 
  
Gains (Losses)Recognized in Income(1)(2)
 

 Product Type
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
5,538
  
 
$
544
  
 
$
3,515
  

 Credit contracts
  
 
38
  
 
 
(533
) 
 
 
(2,579
) 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
(2,982
) 
 
 
146
  
 
 
469
  

 Equity contracts
  
 
3,880
  
 
 
(2,772
) 
 
 
(9,125
) 

 Commodity contracts
  
 
500
  
 
 
597
  
 
 
1,748
  

 Other contracts
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
(160
) 
 
 
680
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative instruments
  
$
6,923
  
 
$
(2,178
) 
 
$
(5,292
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Gains (losses) on derivative contracts not designated as hedges are primarily included in Principal transactions—Trading. 


(2)
Gains (losses) associated with certain derivative contracts that have physically settled are excluded from the table above. Gains (losses) on these contracts are
reflected with the associated cash instruments, which are also included in Principal transactions—Trading.   
The Company also has certain embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the related structured borrowings. Such derivatives are classified in
Long-term borrowings and had a net fair value of $53 million and $109 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and a notional of $3,312 million and $4,256 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010, respectively. The Company recognized losses of $21 million related to changes in the fair value of its bifurcated embedded derivatives for 2011. The Company recognized gains of $76 million and losses of $70 million related to changes in
the fair value of its bifurcated embedded derivatives for 2010 and 2009, respectively.    At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the amount of payables associated with cash collateral received that was netted against derivative assets was $77.9 billion and $61.9 billion,
respectively, and the amount of receivables in respect of cash collateral paid that was netted against derivative liabilities was $44.9 billion and $37.6 billion, respectively. Cash collateral receivables and payables of $268 million and $9 million,
respectively, at December 31, 2011 and $435 million and $37 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010, were not offset against certain contracts that did not meet the definition of a derivative. 
  Credit-Risk-Related Contingencies. 
  In connection with certain OTC trading agreements, the Company may be
required to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties in the event of a 
 









 
203
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

credit ratings downgrade. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the aggregate fair value of derivative contracts that contain credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a
net liability position totaled $40,505 million and $32,567 million, respectively, for which the Company has posted collateral of $33,918 million and $26,904 million, respectively, in the normal course of business. The long-term credit ratings on the
Company by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) are currently at different levels (commonly referred to as “split ratings”). The following are the amounts of additional collateral or
termination payments that could be called by counterparties under the terms of such agreements in the event of a downgrade of the Company’s long-term credit rating under various scenarios at December 31, 2011: $230 million (A3
Moody’s/A- S&P) and $2,962 million (Baa1 Moody’s/ BBB+ S&P); at December 31, 2010: $873 million (A3 Moody’s/A- S&P) and $2,410 million (Baa1 Moody’s/ BBB+ S&P). Of these amounts, $2,500 million and $1,766
million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to bilateral arrangements between the Company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to
the other party. These bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the Company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded. 
  Credit Derivatives and Other Credit Contracts. 
  The Company enters into credit derivatives, principally through credit
default swaps, under which it receives or provides protection against the risk of default on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity or entities. A majority of the Company’s counterparties are banks, broker-dealers,
insurance and other financial institutions, and monoline insurers.   
The tables below summarize the notional and fair value of protection sold and protection purchased through credit default swaps at December 31, 2011
and December 31, 2010:   




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Maximum Potential Payout/Notional
 

 
  
Protection Sold
 
  
Protection Purchased
 

 
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value(Asset)/Liability
 
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value(Asset)/Liability
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Single name credit default swaps
  
$
1,325,045
  
  
$
47,045
  
  
$
1,315,333
  
  
$
(45,345
) 

 Index and basket credit default swaps
  
 
787,228
  
  
 
29,475
  
  
 
601,452
  
  
 
(24,373
) 

 Tranched index and basket credit default swaps
  
 
320,131
  
  
 
17,109
  
  
 
545,476
  
  
 
(31,976
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,432,404
  
  
$
93,629
  
  
$
2,462,261
  
  
$
(101,694
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Maximum Potential Payout/Notional
 

 
  
Protection Sold
 
  
Protection Purchased
 

 
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value(Asset)/Liability
 
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value(Asset)/Liability
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Single name credit default swaps
  
$
1,329,150
  
  
$
10,681
  
  
$
1,316,610
  
  
$
(18,481
) 

 Index and basket credit default swaps
  
 
683,593
  
  
 
10,380
  
  
 
500,781
  
  
 
(6,764
) 

 Tranched index and basket credit default swaps
  
 
281,508
  
  
 
4,171
  
  
 
526,245
  
  
 
(14,496
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,294,251
  
  
$
25,232
  
  
$
2,343,636
  
  
$
(39,741
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 











 
204
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The table below summarizes the credit ratings and maturities of protection sold through credit default
swaps and other credit contracts at December 31, 2011:   




























 
  
Protection Sold
 

 
  
Maximum Potential Payout/Notional
 
  
Fair
Value(Asset)/Liability(1)(2)
 

 
  
Years to Maturity
 
  

 Credit Ratings of the Reference Obligation
  
Less than 1
 
  
1-3
 
  
3-5
 
  
Over 5
 
  
Total
 
  

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Single name credit default swaps:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 AAA
  
$
1,290
  
  
$
5,681
  
  
$
24,087
  
  
$
12,942
  
  
$
44,000
  
  
$
1,536
  

 AA
  
 
12,416
  
  
 
22,043
  
  
 
23,341
  
  
 
10,986
  
  
 
68,786
  
  
 
1,597
  

 A
  
 
67,344
  
  
 
124,445
  
  
 
85,543
  
  
 
47,640
  
  
 
324,972
  
  
 
8,683
  

 BBB
  
 
131,588
  
  
 
218,262
  
  
 
115,320
  
  
 
64,347
  
  
 
529,517
  
  
 
4,789
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
94,105
  
  
 
133,867
  
  
 
82,163
  
  
 
47,635
  
  
 
357,770
  
  
 
30,440
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
306,743
  
  
 
504,298
  
  
 
330,454
  
  
 
183,550
  
  
 
1,325,045
  
  
 
47,045
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Index and basket credit default swaps(3):
  



  



  



  



  



  




 AAA
  
 
48,115
  
  
 
49,997
  
  
 
33,584
  
  
 
19,110
  
  
 
150,806
  
  
 
(907
) 

 AA
  
 
6,584
  
  
 
15,349
  
  
 
9,498
  
  
 
15,745
  
  
 
47,176
  
  
 
1,053
  

 A
  
 
5,202
  
  
 
18,996
  
  
 
17,396
  
  
 
12,286
  
  
 
53,880
  
  
 
2,470
  

 BBB
  
 
8,525
  
  
 
99,004
  
  
 
235,888
  
  
 
32,057
  
  
 
375,474
  
  
 
8,365
  

 Non-investment grade
  
 
112,451
  
  
 
141,042
  
  
 
160,537
  
  
 
65,993
  
  
 
480,023
  
  
 
35,603
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
180,877
  
  
 
324,388
  
  
 
456,903
  
  
 
145,191
  
  
 
1,107,359
  
  
 
46,584
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total credit default swaps sold
  
$
487,620
  
  
$
828,686
  
  
$
787,357
  
  
$
328,741
  
  
$
2,432,404
  
  
$
93,629
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other credit contracts(4)(5)
  
$
65
  
  
$
2,356
  
  
$
717
  
  
$
2,469
  
  
$
5,607
  
  
$
(1,146
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total credit derivatives and other credit contracts
  
$
487,685
  
  
$
831,042
  
  
$
788,074
  
  
$
331,210
  
  
$
2,438,011
  
  
$
92,483
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Fair value amounts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. 


(2)
Fair value amounts of certain credit default swaps where the Company sold protection have an asset carrying value because credit spreads of the underlying reference
entity or entities tightened during the terms of the contracts. 


(3)
Credit ratings are calculated internally. 


(4)
Other credit contracts include CLNs, CDOs and credit default swaps that are considered hybrid instruments. 


(5)
Fair value amount shown represents the fair value of the hybrid instruments. 
 









 
205
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The table below summarizes the credit ratings and maturities of protection sold through credit default
swaps and other credit contracts at December 31, 2010:   




























 
  
Protection Sold
 

 
  
Maximum Potential Payout/Notional
 
  
Fair
Value(Asset)/Liability(1)(2)
 

 
  
Years to Maturity
 
  

 Credit Ratings of the Reference Obligation
  
Less than 1
 
  
1-3
 
  
3-5
 
  
Over 5
 
  
Total
 
  

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Single name credit default swaps:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 AAA
  
$
2,747
  
  
$
7,232
  
  
$
13,927
  
  
$
22,648
  
  
$
46,554
  
  
$
3,193
  

 AA
  
 
13,364
  
  
 
44,700
  
  
 
35,030
  
  
 
33,538
  
  
 
126,632
  
  
 
4,260
  

 A
  
 
47,756
  
  
 
131,464
  
  
 
79,900
  
  
 
50,227
  
  
 
309,347
  
  
 
(940
) 

 BBB
  
 
74,961
  
  
 
191,046
  
  
 
115,460
  
  
 
76,544
  
  
 
458,011
  
  
 
(2,816
) 

 Non-investment grade
  
 
70,691
  
  
 
173,778
  
  
 
84,605
  
  
 
59,532
  
  
 
388,606
  
  
 
6,984
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
209,519
  
  
 
548,220
  
  
 
328,922
  
  
 
242,489
  
  
 
1,329,150
  
  
 
10,681
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Index and basket credit default swaps(3):
  



  



  



  



  



  




 AAA
  
 
17,437
  
  
 
67,165
  
  
 
26,172
  
  
 
26,966
  
  
 
137,740
  
  
 
(1,569
) 

 AA
  
 
974
  
  
 
3,012
  
  
 
695
  
  
 
18,236
  
  
 
22,917
  
  
 
305
  

 A
  
 
447
  
  
 
9,432
  
  
 
44,104
  
  
 
4,902
  
  
 
58,885
  
  
 
2,291
  

 BBB
  
 
24,311
  
  
 
80,314
  
  
 
176,252
  
  
 
69,218
  
  
 
350,095
  
  
 
(278
) 

 Non-investment grade
  
 
53,771
  
  
 
139,875
  
  
 
95,796
  
  
 
106,022
  
  
 
395,464
  
  
 
13,802
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
96,940
  
  
 
299,798
  
  
 
343,019
  
  
 
225,344
  
  
 
965,101
  
  
 
14,551
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total credit default swaps sold
  
$
306,459
  
  
$
848,018
  
  
$
671,941
  
  
$
467,833
  
  
$
2,294,251
  
  
$
25,232
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other credit contracts(4)(5)
  
$
61
  
  
$
1,416
  
  
$
822
  
  
$
3,856
  
  
$
6,155
  
  
$
(1,198
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total credit derivatives and other credit contracts
  
$
306,520
  
  
$
849,434
  
  
$
672,763
  
  
$
471,689
  
  
$
2,300,406
  
  
$
24,034
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Fair value amounts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. 


(2)
Fair value amounts of certain credit default swaps where the Company sold protection have an asset carrying value because credit spreads of the underlying reference
entity or entities tightened during the terms of the contracts. 


(3)
Credit ratings are calculated internally. 


(4)
Other credit contracts include CLNs, CDOs and credit default swaps that are considered hybrid instruments. 


(5)
Fair value amount shown represents the fair value of the hybrid instruments. 
  Single Name Credit Default Swaps.    A
credit default swap protects the buyer against the loss of principal on a bond or loan in case of a default by the issuer. The protection buyer pays a periodic premium (generally quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the
period. The Company in turn will have to perform under a credit default swap if a credit event as defined under the contract occurs. Typical credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay and
restructuring of the obligations of the referenced entity. In order to provide an indication of the current payment status or performance risk of the credit default swaps, the external credit ratings of the underlying reference entity of the credit
default swaps are disclosed.    Index and Basket Credit
Default Swaps.    Index and basket credit default swaps are credit default swaps that reference multiple names through underlying baskets or portfolios of single name credit default swaps. Generally, in the event of a
default on one of the underlying names, the Company will have to pay a pro rata portion of the total notional amount of the credit default index or basket contract. In order to provide an 
 











 
206
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

indication of the current payment status or performance risk of these credit default swaps, the weighted average external credit ratings of the underlying reference entities comprising the basket
or index were calculated and disclosed.    The Company also enters
into index and basket credit default swaps where the credit protection provided is based upon the application of tranching techniques. In tranched transactions, the credit risk of an index or basket is separated into various portions of the capital
structure, with different levels of subordination. The most junior tranches cover initial defaults, and once losses exceed the notional of the tranche, they are passed on to the next most senior tranche in the capital structure. 
  When external credit ratings are not available, credit ratings were
determined based upon an internal methodology.    Credit
Protection Sold through CLNs and CDOs.    The Company has invested in CLNs and CDOs, which are hybrid instruments containing embedded derivatives, in which credit protection has been sold to the issuer of the note. If
there is a credit event of a reference entity underlying the instrument, the principal balance of the note may not be repaid in full to the Company.   
Purchased Credit Protection with Identical Underlying Reference Obligations.    For single name credit default swaps and
non-tranched index and basket credit default swaps, the Company has purchased protection with a notional amount of approximately $1.9 trillion and $1.8 trillion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, compared with a notional amount of
approximately $2.1 trillion and $2.0 trillion, at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, of credit protection sold with identical underlying reference obligations. In order to identify purchased protection with the same
underlying reference obligations, the notional amount for individual reference obligations within non-tranched indices and baskets was determined on a pro rata basis and matched off against single name and non-tranched index and basket credit
default swaps where credit protection was sold with identical underlying reference obligations.    The purchase of credit protection does not represent the sole manner in which the Company risk manages its exposure to credit derivatives. The Company manages its exposure to these derivative contracts
through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, which include managing the credit and correlation risk across single name, non-tranched indices and baskets, tranched indices and baskets, and cash positions. Aggregate market risk limits have been
established for credit derivatives, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company may also recover amounts on the underlying reference obligation delivered to the Company under credit default swaps where credit
protection was sold. 
 









 
207
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
13.    Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies. 
  Commitments. 
  The Company’s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit
and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending at December 31, 2011 are summarized below by period of
expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:   
























 
  
Years to Maturity
 
  
 
 

  
  
Lessthan 1
 
  
1-3
 
  
3-5
 
  
Over 5
 
  
Total atDecember 31,2011
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements
  
$
1,645
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,657
  

 Investment activities
  
 
1,146
  
  
 
317
  
  
 
68
  
  
 
270
  
  
 
1,801
  

 Primary lending commitments—investment grade(1)(2)
  
 
11,581
  
  
 
10,206
  
  
 
29,417
  
  
 
440
  
  
 
51,644
  

 Primary lending commitments—non-investment grade(2)
  
 
1,027
  
  
 
3,937
  
  
 
9,014
  
  
 
1,673
  
  
 
15,651
  

 Secondary lending commitments(3)
  
 
90
  
  
 
305
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
130
  
  
 
548
  

 Commitments for secured lending transactions
  
 
293
  
  
 
295
  
  
 
159
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
747
  

 Forward starting reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing agreements(4)
  
 
40,792
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
40,792
  

 Commercial and residential mortgage-related commitments
  
 
790
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
152
  
  
 
484
  
  
 
1,448
  

 Other commitments
  
 
1,013
  
  
 
306
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,324
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
58,377
  
  
$
15,394
  
  
$
38,844
  
  
$
2,997
  
  
$
115,612
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
This amount includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $275 million at December 31, 2011, of which $138 million have maturities of less
than one year and $137 million of which have maturities of one to three years. 


(2)
This amount includes $6.4 billion of investment grade and $1.6 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for investment at
December 31, 2011. The remainder of these lending commitments are carried at fair value. 


(3)
These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of
financial condition (see Note 4). 


(4)
The Company enters into forward starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2011
and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days and of the amount at
December 31, 2011, $36.4 billion settled within three business days.    Letters of Credit and Other Financial Guarantees Obtained to Satisfy Collateral Requirements.    The Company has outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees
issued by third-party banks to certain of the Company’s counterparties. The Company is contingently liable for these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to provide collateral for securities and commodities
borrowed and to satisfy various margin requirements in lieu of depositing cash or securities with these counterparties.   
Investment Activities.    The Company enters into commitments associated with its real estate, private equity and principal
investment activities, which include alternative products. 
 











 
208
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Lending Commitments.    Primary lending commitments are those which are
originated by the Company whereas secondary lending commitments are purchased from third parties in the market. The commitments include lending commitments that are made to investment grade and non-investment grade companies in connection with
corporate lending and other business activities.    Commitments
for Secured Lending Transactions.    Secured lending commitments are extended by the Company to companies and are secured by real estate or other physical assets of the borrower. Loans made under these arrangements typically
are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower.   
Forward Starting Reverse Repurchase Agreements.    The Company has entered into forward starting securities purchased under
agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2011 and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government
obligations.    Commercial and Residential Mortgage-Related
Commitments.    The Company enters into forward purchase contracts involving residential mortgage loans, residential mortgage lending commitments to individuals and residential home equity lines of credit. In addition, the
Company enters into commitments to originate commercial and residential mortgage loans.    Underwriting Commitments.    The Company provides underwriting commitments in connection with its capital raising sources to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional
clients.    Other Commitments.    Other
commitments generally include commercial lending commitments to small businesses and commitments related to securities-based lending activities in connection with the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group business segment. 
  The Company sponsors several non-consolidated investment funds for
third-party investors where the Company typically acts as general partner of, and investment advisor to, these funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds, with subscribing third-party investors contributing the
majority. The Company’s employees, including its senior officers, as well as the Company’s directors, may participate on the same terms and conditions as other investors in certain of these funds that the Company forms primarily for client
investment, except that the Company may waive or lower applicable fees and charges for its employees. The Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to these investment
funds.    Premises and Equipment.    The
Company has non-cancelable operating leases covering premises and equipment (excluding commodities operating leases, shown separately). At December 31, 2011, future minimum rental commitments under such leases (net of subleases, principally on
office rentals) were as follows (dollars in millions):   








 Year Ended
  
OperatingPremisesLeases
 

 2012
  
$
693
  

 2013
  
 
649
  

 2014
  
 
580
  

 2015
  
 
470
  

 2016
  
 
406
  

 Thereafter
  
 
2,453
  

 









 
209
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The total of minimum rentals to be received in the future under non-cancelable operating subleases at
December 31, 2011 was $92 million.    Occupancy lease
agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for rent and operating expense escalations resulting from increased assessments for real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense, net of sublease rental income, was $781 million,
$788 million, $707 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
In connection with its commodities business, the Company enters into operating leases for both crude oil and refined products storage and for vessel
charters. At December 31, 2011, future minimum rental commitments under such leases were as follows (dollars in millions):   








 Year Ended
  
OperatingEquipmentLeases
 

 2012
  
$
210
  

 2013
  
 
259
  

 2014
  
 
170
  

 2015
  
 
104
  

 2016
  
 
54
  

 Thereafter
  
 
162
  
   Guarantees. 
  The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company’s
obligations under guarantee arrangements at December 31, 2011:   
































 
 
Maximum Potential Payout/Notional
 
 
CarryingAmount(Asset)/Liability
 
 
Collateral/Recourse
 

 
 
Years to Maturity
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Type of Guarantee
 
Less than 1
 
 
1-3
 
 
3-5
 
 
Over 5
 
 
Total
 
 
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Credit derivative contracts(1)
 
$
487,620
  
 
$
828,686
  
 
$
787,357
  
 
$
328,741
  
 
$
2,432,404
  
 
$
93,629
  
 
$
—  
  

 Other credit contracts
 
 
65
  
 
 
2,356
  
 
 
717
  
 
 
2,469
  
 
 
5,607
  
 
 
(1,146
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Non-credit derivative contracts(1)
 
 
1,332,802
  
 
 
835,776
  
 
 
318,162
  
 
 
309,471
  
 
 
2,796,211
  
 
 
112,936
  
 
 
—  
  

 Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued(2)(3)
 
 
1,426
  
 
 
788
  
 
 
1,055
  
 
 
5,554
  
 
 
8,823
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
5,749
  

 Market value guarantees
 
 
—  
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
203
  
 
 
561
  
 
 
817
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
90
  

 Liquidity facilities
 
 
5,021
  
 
 
1,232
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
6,358
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,995
  

 Whole loan sales representations and warranties
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,557
  
 
 
24,557
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
—  
  

 Securitization representations and warranties
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
83,544
  
 
 
83,544
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
—  
  

 General partner guarantees
 
 
259
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
471
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
—  
  
  


(1)
Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts,
see Note 12. 


(2)
Approximately $2.4 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the “Commitments” table in primary and secondary lending commitments.
Standby letters of credit are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition. 
 











 
210
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


(3)
Amounts include guarantees issued by consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company of approximately $291 million. These guarantees relate to obligations of
the fund’s investee entities, including guarantees related to capital expenditures and principal and interest debt payments. Accrued losses under these guarantees of approximately $55 million are reflected as a reduction of the carrying value
of the related fund investments, which are reflected in Financial instruments owned—Investments on the consolidated statement of financial condition. 
  The Company has obligations under certain guarantee arrangements, including
contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, security or commodity price, an index or
the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Also included as guarantees are contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed
party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement, as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The Company’s use of guarantees is described below by type of guarantee: 
  Derivative Contracts.    Certain derivative
contracts meet the accounting definition of a guarantee, including certain written options, contingent forward contracts and credit default swaps (see Note 12 regarding credit derivatives in which the Company has sold credit protection to the
counterparty). Although the Company’s derivative arrangements do not specifically identify whether the derivative counterparty retains the underlying asset, liability or equity security, the Company has disclosed information regarding all
derivative contracts that could meet the accounting definition of a guarantee. The maximum potential payout for certain derivative contracts, such as written interest rate caps and written foreign currency options, cannot be estimated, as increases
in interest or foreign exchange rates in the future could possibly be unlimited. Therefore, in order to provide information regarding the maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under certain derivative
contracts, the notional amount of the contracts has been disclosed. In certain situations, collateral may be held by the Company for those contracts that meet the definition of a guarantee. Generally, the Company sets collateral requirements by
counterparty so that the collateral covers various transactions and products and is not allocated specifically to individual contracts. Also, the Company may recover amounts related to the underlying asset delivered to the Company under the
derivative contract.    The Company records all derivative contracts
at fair value. Aggregate market risk limits have been established, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company also manages its exposure to these derivative contracts through a variety of risk mitigation
strategies, including, but not limited to, entering into offsetting economic hedge positions. The Company believes that the notional amounts of the derivative contracts generally overstate its exposure. 
  Standby Letters of Credit and Other Financial Guarantees
Issued.    In connection with its corporate lending business and other corporate activities, the Company provides standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees to counterparties. Such arrangements represent
obligations to make payments to third parties if the counterparty fails to fulfill its obligation under a borrowing arrangement or other contractual obligation. A majority of the Company’s standby letters of credit is provided on behalf of
counterparties that are investment grade.    Market Value
Guarantees.    Market value guarantees are issued to guarantee timely payment of a specified return to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds. These guarantees are designed to return an investor’s
contribution to a fund and the investor’s share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by a fund. From time to time, the Company may also guarantee return of principal invested, potentially including a specified rate of return,
to fund investors.    Liquidity
Facilities.    The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. Primarily, the Company

 









 
211
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

acts as liquidity provider to municipal bond securitization SPEs and for standalone municipal bonds in which the holders of beneficial interests issued by these SPEs or the holders of the
individual bonds, respectively, have the right to tender their interests for purchase by the Company on specified dates at a specified price. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are
required under such liquidity facilities as well as make-whole or recourse provisions with the trust sponsors. Primarily all of the underlying assets in the SPEs are investment grade. Liquidity facilities provided to municipal tender option bond
trusts are classified as derivatives.    Whole Loan Sale
Guarantees.    The Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain whole loan sales. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to repurchase
such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. The Company’s maximum potential payout related to such representations and warranties is equal to the current unpaid principal
balance (“UPB”) of such loans. The Company has information on the current UPB only when it services the loans. The amount included in the above table for the maximum potential payout of $24.6 billion includes the current UPB where
known ($5.7 billion) and the UPB at the time of sale ($18.9 billion) when the current UPB is not known. The UPB at the time of the sale of all loans covered by these representations and warranties was approximately $43.7 billion. The
related liability primarily relates to sales of loans to the federal mortgage agencies.    Securitization Representations and Warranties.    As part of the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment’s securitization and related activities, the
Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Company. The extent and nature of the representations and
warranties, if any, vary among different securitizations. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. The
maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make would be equal to the current outstanding balances of, or losses associated with, the assets subject to breaches of such representations and warranties. The amount
included in the above table for the maximum potential payout includes the current UPB where known and the UPB at the time of sale when the current UPB is not known. 
  Between 2004 and 2011, the Company sponsored approximately $148 billion of
RMBS primarily containing U.S. residential loans that are outstanding at December 31, 2011. Of that amount, the Company made representations and warranties concerning approximately $47 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the
representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21 billion of loans. At December 31, 2011, the Company had recorded $24 million in the consolidated financial statements for payments
owed as a result of breach of representations and warranties made in connection with these residential mortgages. At December 31, 2011, the current UPB for all the residential assets subject to such representations and warranties was
approximately $23.5 billion and the cumulative losses associated with U.S. RMBS were approximately $10.5 billion. The Company did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on
approximately $80 billion of residential loans that it securitized during that time period. The Company has not sponsored any U.S. RMBS transactions since 2007.   
The Company also made representations and warranties in connection with its role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that it securitized
in CMBS. Between 2004 and 2011, the Company originated approximately $44 billion and $27 billion of U.S. and non-U.S. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into CMBS sponsored by the Company that are outstanding at
December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, the Company had not accrued any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for payments owed as a result of breach of representations and warranties made in connection with these commercial
mortgages. At 
 











 
212
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

December 31, 2011, the current UPB for all U.S. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties is $35.2 billion. For the non-U.S. commercial mortgage loans, the
amount included in the above table for the maximum potential payout includes the current UPB when known of $13.9 billion and the UPB at the time of sale when the current UPB is not known of $0.4 billion. 
  General Partner Guarantees.    As a general
partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives certain distributions from the partnerships related to achieving certain return hurdles according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may,
from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations.
   Other Guarantees and Indemnities. 
  In the normal course of business, the Company provides guarantees and
indemnifications in a variety of commercial transactions. These provisions generally are standard contractual terms. Certain of these guarantees and indemnifications are described below.   


 
•
 
 Trust Preferred Securities.    The Company has established Morgan Stanley Capital Trusts for the limited purpose of
issuing trust preferred securities to third parties and lending the proceeds to the Company in exchange for junior subordinated debentures. The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders
thereof to the extent that the Company has made payments to a Morgan Stanley Capital Trust on the junior subordinated debentures. In the event that the Company does not make payments to a Morgan Stanley Capital Trust, holders of such series of trust
preferred securities would not be able to rely upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. The Company has not recorded any liability in the consolidated financial statements for these guarantees and believes that the occurrence of any events
(i.e., non-performance on the part of the paying agent) that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote. See Note 15 for details on the Company’s junior subordinated debentures. 
 


 
•
 
 Indemnities.    The Company provides standard indemnities to counterparties for certain contingent exposures and taxes,
including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions, certain annuity products and other financial arrangements. These indemnity payments could be required based
on a change in the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings or a change in factual circumstances. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The
maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated.   


 
•
 
 Exchange/Clearinghouse Member Guarantees.    The Company is a member of various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and
clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or derivative contracts. Associated with its membership, the Company may be required to pay a proportionate share of the financial obligations of another member who may default on its obligations to
the exchange or the clearinghouse. While the rules governing different exchange or clearinghouse memberships vary, in general the Company’s guarantee obligations would arise only if the exchange or clearinghouse had previously exhausted its
resources. The maximum potential payout under these membership agreements cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these agreements and believes that any potential
requirement to make payments under these agreements is remote.   


 
•
 
 Merger and Acquisition Guarantees.    The Company may, from time to time, in its role as investment banking advisor be
required to provide guarantees in connection with certain European merger and acquisition transactions. If required by the regulating authorities, the Company provides a guarantee that

 









 
213
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 


 
 
the acquirer in the merger and acquisition transaction has or will have sufficient funds to complete the transaction and would then be required to make the acquisition payments in the event the
acquirer’s funds are insufficient at the completion date of the transaction. These arrangements generally cover the time frame from the transaction offer date to its closing date and, therefore, are generally short term in nature. The maximum
potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make cannot be estimated. The Company believes the likelihood of any payment by the Company under these arrangements is remote given the level of the Company’s due
diligence associated with its role as investment banking advisor.   


 
•
 
 Guarantees on Morgan Stanley Stable Value Program.    On September 30, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with
the investment manager for the Stable Value Program (“SVP”), a fund within the Company’s 401(k) plan, and certain other third parties. Under the agreement, the Company contributed $20 million to the SVP
on October 15, 2009 and recorded the contribution in Compensation and benefits expense. Additionally, the Company may have a future obligation to make a payment of $40 million to the SVP following the third anniversary
of the agreement, after which the SVP would be wound down over a period of time. The future obligation is contingent upon whether the market-to-book value ratio of the portion of the SVP that is subject to certain book-value stabilizing
contracts has fallen below a specific threshold and the Company and the other parties to the agreement all decline to make payments to restore the SVP to such threshold as of the third anniversary of the agreement. The Company
has not recorded a liability for this guarantee in the consolidated financial statements.    In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of
physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related
debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.    Contingencies.    Legal.    In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and
other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for
indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress. These actions have included, but are not limited to, residential mortgage and
credit crisis related matters and a Foreign Corrupt Practices Act related matter in China. Over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters has
increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, the Company expects that it may become the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future and, while
the Company has identified below any individual proceedings where the Company believes a material loss to be reasonably possible and reasonably estimable, there can be no assurance that material losses will not be incurred from claims that have not
yet been notified to the Company or are not yet determined to be probable or possible and reasonably estimable losses.   
The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and
self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.

 











 
214
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The Company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. Where
available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the Company accrues the estimated loss by a
charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. In addition, even where loss is possible or an exposure to loss exists in
excess of the liability already accrued with respect to a previously recognized loss contingency, it is not always possible to reasonably estimate the size of the possible loss or range of loss. 
  For certain legal proceedings, the Company cannot reasonably estimate such
losses, particularly for proceedings that are in their early stages of development or where plaintiffs seek substantial or indeterminate damages. Numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and
determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings in question, before a loss or
additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for any proceeding.    For certain other legal proceedings, the Company can estimate reasonably possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued, but does not believe,
based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that such losses will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as a whole, other than the matters referred to in the following paragraphs.
   On September 25, 2009, the Company was named as a defendant
in a lawsuit styled Citibank, N.A. v. Morgan Stanley & Co. International, PLC, which was pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (“SDNY”). The lawsuit relates to a credit default
swap referencing the Capmark VI CDO (“Capmark”), which was structured by Citibank, N.A. (“Citi N.A.”). At issue is whether, as part of the swap agreement, Citi N.A. was obligated to obtain the Company’s prior written consent
before it exercised its rights to liquidate Capmark upon the occurrence of certain contractually-defined credit events. Citi N.A. is seeking approximately $245 million in compensatory damages plus interest and costs. On October 8, 2010, the
court issued an order denying Citi N.A.’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the Company’s counterclaim for reformation and granting Citi N.A.’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the Company’s counterclaim for
estoppel. On May 25, 2011, the court issued an order denying the Company’s motion for summary judgment and granting Citi N.A.’s cross motion for summary judgment. On June 27, 2011, the court entered a judgment in favor of Citi
N.A. for $269 million plus post-judgment interest and costs, and the Company filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which appeal is now pending. Based on currently available information, the Company
believes it could incur a loss of up to approximately $269 million plus post-judgment interest.    On August 25, 2008, the Company and two ratings agencies were named as defendants in a purported class action related to securities issued by a structured investment vehicle called Cheyne Finance
(the “Cheyne SIV”). The case is styled Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, et al. v. Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc., et al. and is pending in the SDNY. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the ratings assigned to the
securities issued by the Cheyne SIV were false and misleading because the ratings did not accurately reflect the risks associated with the subprime residential mortgage backed securities held by the Cheyne SIV. On September 2, 2009, the court
dismissed all of the claims against the Company except for plaintiffs’ claims for common law fraud. On June 15, 2010, the court denied plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. On July 20, 2010, the court granted plaintiffs
leave to replead their aiding and abetting common law fraud claims against the Company, and those claims were added in an amended complaint filed on August 5, 2010. On December 27, 2011, the court permitted plaintiffs to

 









 
215
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

reinstate their causes of action for negligent misrepresentation and breach of fiduciary duty against the Company. The Company moved to dismiss these claims on January 10, 2012. On
January 5, 2012, the court permitted plaintiffs to amend their Complaint and assert a negligence claim against the Company. The amended complaint was filed on January 9, 2012 and the Company moved to dismiss the negligence claim on
January 17, 2012. On January 23, 2012, the Company moved for summary judgment with respect to the fraud and aiding and abetting fraud claims. There are 15 plaintiffs in this action asserting claims related to approximately $983 million of
securities issued by the Cheyne SIV. Plaintiffs have not alleged the amount of their alleged investments and are seeking, among other things, unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. Based on currently available information, the
Company believes that the defendants could incur a loss up to the amount of plaintiffs’ claimed compensatory damages, once specified, related to their alleged purchase of approximately $983 million of securities issued by the Cheyne SIV plus
pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs.    On July 15,
2010, China Development Industrial Bank (“CDIB”) filed a complaint against the Company, which is styled China Development Industrial Bank v. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated et al. and is pending in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, New York County. The complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the STACK 2006-1 CDO. The complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent
concealment and alleges that the Company misrepresented the risks of the STACK 2006-1 CDO to CDIB, and that the Company knew that the assets backing the CDO were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with CDIB. The complaint
seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that CDIB alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap, rescission of CDIB’s obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief, fees
and costs. On February 28, 2011, the court presiding over this action denied the Company’s motion to dismiss the complaint. On March 21, 2011, the Company appealed the order denying its motion to dismiss the
complaint. On July 7, 2011, the appellate court affirmed the lower court’s decision denying the motion to dismiss. Based on currently available information, the Company believes it could incur a loss of up to approximately $240
million plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs.    On
March 15, 2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco filed two complaints against the Company and other defendants in the Superior Court of the State of California. These actions are styled Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v.
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, et al., and Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. et al., respectively. Amended complaints were filed on June 10, 2010. The complaints allege that defendants made untrue
statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of mortgage pass through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The original amount of the certificates allegedly sold to
plaintiff by the Company in these cases was approximately $980 million collectively. The complaints raise claims under both the federal securities laws and California law and seek, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff’s purchase of such
certificates. On July 29, 2011 and September 8, 2011, the court presiding over these cases dismissed the federal securities law claims against the Company, but denied the Company’s motion to dismiss with respect to other claims. At
December 31, 2011, the current unpaid balance of the mortgage pass through certificates at issue in these cases was approximately $405 million and the certificates had not yet incurred losses. Based on currently available information, the
Company believes it could incur a loss up to the difference between the $405 million unpaid balance of these certificates and their fair market value at the time of a judgment against the Company, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and
costs. The Company may be entitled to be indemnified for some of these losses and would be entitled to an offset for interest received by the plaintiff prior to a judgment. 
  14.    Regulatory Requirements. 
  Morgan Stanley.    The Company is a financial
holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and is subject to the regulation and oversight of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the 
 











 
216
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

“Federal Reserve”). The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company’s compliance with such
capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company’s national bank subsidiaries. 
  The Company calculates its capital ratios and Risk Weighted Assets
(“RWA”) in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Federal Reserve. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement
and Capital Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulation incorporating the Basel II Accord, which requires internationally active banking organizations,
as well as certain of their U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. In July 2010, the Company began reporting its capital adequacy standards on a parallel basis to its regulators under Basel I and Basel
II as part of a phased implementation of Basel II.    In June 2011,
the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations implementing a provision of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requiring certain institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve, including the Company, be subject to
capital requirements that are not less than the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements. As a result, the generally applicable capital standards, which are based on Basel I standards, but may themselves change over time, will serve as a
permanent floor to minimum capital requirements calculated under the Basel II standards the Company is currently required to implement, as well as future capital standards.
  In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released
proposals on risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards, known as “Basel III”. Basel III contains new capital standards that raise the quality of capital and strengthen counterparty credit risk capital requirements and introduces
a leverage ratio as a supplemental measure to the risk-based ratio. Basel III includes a new capital conservation buffer, which imposes a common equity requirement above the new minimum that can be depleted under stress, subject to restrictions on
capital actions, a new additional loss absorbency capital requirement for global systemically important banks (“GSIB”), such as the Company, and a new countercyclical buffer, which regulators can activate during periods of excessive credit
growth in their jurisdiction. The Basel III proposals complement an earlier proposal for revisions to the market risk framework that increases capital requirements for securitizations within the Company’s trading book. In 2011, the U.S.
regulators issued proposed rules that are intended to implement certain aspects of the market risk framework proposals. The U.S. regulators will require implementation of Basel III subject to an extended phase-in period. 
  At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with Basel I capital
requirements with ratios of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of 16.6% and total capital to RWAs of 17.8% (6% and 10% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes, respectively). In addition, financial holding companies are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio
as defined by the Federal Reserve. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets, deferred tax assets and
financial and non-financial equity investments). The adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for the year. At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with this leverage restriction, with a Tier 1 leverage ratio
of 6.8% (5% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes).    At
December 31, 2011, the Company calculated its RWAs in accordance with the regulatory capital requirements of the Federal Reserve, which is consistent with guidelines described under Basel I. RWAs reflect both on and off-balance sheet risk of
the Company. The risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the Company enhances its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and
interpretations. 
 









 
217
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following table summarizes the capital measures for the Company: 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Balance
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Balance
 
  
Ratio
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Tier 1 common capital(1)(2)
  
$
41,023
  
  
 
13.0
% 
 
$
34,676
  
  
 
10.2
% 

 Tier 1 capital(1)
  
 
52,352
  
  
 
16.6
% 
 
 
52,880
  
  
 
15.5
% 

 Total capital(1)
  
 
56,194
  
  
 
17.8
% 
 
 
54,477
  
  
 
16.0
% 

 RWAs(1)
  
 
315,293
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
340,884
  
  
 
—  
  

 Adjusted average assets
  
 
770,815
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
802,283
  
  
 
—  
  

 Tier 1 leverage
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
6.6
% 
  


(1)
At December 31, 2010, the Company’s RWAs, Total capital ratio, Tier 1 common capital ratio and Tier 1 capital ratio were adjusted to $340,884 million, 16.0%,
10.2% and 15.5%, respectively, from $329,560 million, 16.5%, 10.5% and 16.1%, respectively, based on revised guidance from the Federal Reserve about the Company’s capital treatment for OTC derivative collateral. 


(2)
On December 30, 2011, the final rule issued by Federal Reserve adopting amendments to Regulation Y became effective. In the final rule, the Federal Reserve
formalized regulatory definitions for Tier 1 common capital and the Tier 1 common capital ratio. The Federal Reserve defined Tier 1 common capital as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital, including perpetual preferred stock and
related surplus, minority interest in subsidiaries, trust preferred securities and mandatory convertible preferred securities. Previously, the Company’s definition of Tier 1 common capital included all of the items noted in the Federal
Reserve’s definition, but it also included an adjustment for the portion of goodwill and non-servicing intangible assets associated with MSSB’s noncontrolling interests (i.e., Citi’s share of MSSB’s goodwill and intangibles). The
Company’s conformance to the Federal Reserve’s definition under the final rule reduced the Tier 1 common capital and the Tier 1 common capital ratio by approximately $4.2 billion and 132 basis points, respectively at December 31,
2011.    Tier 1 capital ratio increased year-over-year
due to a decrease in RWAs. Tier 1 leverage ratio increased year-over-year due to a decrease in adjusted average assets.   
The Company’s U.S. Bank Operating Subsidiaries.    The Company’s domestic bank operating subsidiaries are subject to
various regulatory capital requirements as administered by U.S. federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional, discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken,
could have a direct material effect on the Company’s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries’ financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company’s U.S. bank
operating subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Company’s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries’ assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory
accounting practices.    At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
Company’s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries met all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject and exceeded all regulatory mandated and targeted minimum regulatory capital requirements to be well-capitalized. There are no conditions
or events that management believes have changed the Company’s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries’ category. 
 











 
218
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The table below sets forth the capital information for the Company’s U.S. bank operating
subsidiaries, which are U.S. depository institutions:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
  Amount  
 
  
  Ratio  
 
 
  Amount  
 
  
  Ratio  
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Total capital (to RWAs):
  



  



 



  




 Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.
  
$
10,222
  
  
 
17.8
% 
 
$
9,568
  
  
 
18.6
% 

 Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association
  
$
1,279
  
  
 
31.8
% 
 
$
909
  
  
 
37.4
% 

 Tier I capital (to RWAs):
  



  



 



  




 Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.
  
$
8,703
  
  
 
15.1
% 
 
$
8,069
  
  
 
15.7
% 

 Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association
  
$
1,277
  
  
 
31.7
% 
 
$
909
  
  
 
37.4
% 

 Leverage ratio:
  



  



 



  




 Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.
  
$
8,703
  
  
 
13.2
% 
 
$
8,069
  
  
 
12.1
% 

 Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association
  
$
1,277
  
  
 
10.2
% 
 
$
909
  
  
 
12.4
% 
   Under regulatory capital requirements adopted
by the U.S. federal banking agencies, U.S. depository institutions, in order to be considered well-capitalized, must maintain a ratio of total capital to RWAs of 10%, a capital ratio of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of 6%, and a ratio
of Tier 1 capital to average book assets (leverage ratio) of 5%. Each U.S. depository institution subsidiary of the Company must be well-capitalized in order for the Company to continue to qualify as a financial holding company
and to continue to engage in the broadest range of financial activities permitted for financial holding companies. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s U.S. depository institutions maintained capital at levels in excess
of the universally mandated well-capitalized levels. These subsidiary depository institutions maintain capital at levels sufficiently in excess of the “well-capitalized” requirements to address any additional capital needs and
requirements identified by the federal banking regulators.   
MS&Co. and Other Broker-Dealers.    MS&Co. is a registered broker-dealer and registered futures commission merchant
and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS&Co.
has consistently operated with capital in excess of its regulatory capital requirements. MS&Co.’s net capital totaled $8,249 million and $7,463 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which exceeded the amount required by
$7,215 million and $6,355 million, respectively. MS&Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of SEC Rule
15c3-1. MS&Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. At December 31, 2011, MS&Co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC is a registered broker-dealer and
registered futures commission merchant and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
LLC has consistently operated with capital in excess of its regulatory capital requirements. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC clears certain customer activity directly and introduces other business to MS&Co. and Citigroup, Inc. MSIP, a
London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Authority, and MSMS, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MSIP and
MSMS have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements. 
 









 
219
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Other Regulated Subsidiaries.    Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries
are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in
excess of their local capital adequacy requirements.    Morgan
Stanley Derivative Products Inc. (“MSDP”), a derivative products subsidiary rated Aa3 by Moody’s and AAA by S&P, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by Moody’s and S&P. MSDP is operated such
that creditors of the Company should not expect to have any claims on the assets of MSDP, unless and until the obligations to its own creditors are satisfied in full. Creditors of MSDP should not expect to have any claims on the assets of the
Company or any of its affiliates, other than the respective assets of MSDP.    The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain covenants contained in various agreements governing indebtedness of the Company, may restrict the Company’s ability to withdraw
capital from its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately $16.2 billion and $19.5 billion, respectively, of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may be restricted as to the payment of cash dividends and advances to the
parent company.    15.    Total Equity.
   Morgan Stanley Shareholders’ Equity. 
  Common Stock.
  Changes in shares of common stock outstanding for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were
as follows (share data in millions):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Shares outstanding at beginning of period
  
 
1,512
  
 
 
1,361
  
 
 
1,074
  

 Public offerings and other issuances of common stock
  
 
385
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
276
  

 Net impact of stock option exercises and other share issuances
  
 
41
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
13
  

 Treasury stock purchases(1)
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares outstanding at end of period
  
 
1,927
  
 
 
1,512
  
 
 
1,361
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Treasury stock purchases include repurchases of common stock for employee tax withholding.    Treasury Shares.  
In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company’s outstanding
common stock. The share repurchase program considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. During 2011 and 2010, the Company did not purchase any of its common stock
as part of its share repurchase program. At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval.
   MUFG Stock Conversion. 
  On June 30, 2011, MUFG’s outstanding Series B Preferred Stock with
a face value of $7.8 billion (carrying value $8.1 billion) and a 10% dividend was converted into 385,464,097 shares of the Company’s common stock, 
 











 
220
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

including approximately 75 million shares resulting from the adjustment to the conversion ratio pursuant to the transaction agreement. As a result of the adjustment to the conversion
ratio, the Company incurred a one-time, non-cash negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion in its calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share during the year ended December 31, 2011. As a result of the conversion, MUFG did not
receive the previously declared dividend that would otherwise have been payable on July 15, 2011 in respect of the Series B Preferred Stock.   
CIC Investment.  
In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units that included contracts to purchase Company common stock to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for
approximately $5,579 million. Each Equity Unit had a stated amount of $1,000 per unit consisting of: (i) an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a trust preferred security of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust A (“Series A Trust”),
Morgan Stanley Capital Trust B (“Series B Trust”) or Morgan Stanley Capital Trust C (“Series C Trust”) (each a “Morgan Stanley Capital Trust” and, collectively, the “Trusts”) with an initial liquidation amount
of $1,000; and (ii) a stock purchase contract relating to the common stock, par value of $0.01 per share, of the Company. A substantial portion of the investment proceeds from the offering of the Equity Units was treated as Tier 1 capital for
regulatory capital purposes.    In the first quarter of fiscal 2008,
the Company issued junior subordinated debt securities for a total of $5,579,173,000 in exchange for $5,579,143,000 in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Trusts and $30,000 in trust common securities issued
equally by the Trusts. The Company elected to fair value the junior subordinated debentures pursuant to the fair value option accounting guidance. The trust common securities, which were held by the Company, represented an interest in the Trusts and
were recorded as an equity method investment in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition. The Trusts were VIEs in accordance with current accounting guidance, and the Company did not consolidate its interests in the Trusts as
it was not the primary beneficiary of any of the Trusts.    As a
result of the transaction with MUFG described under “Preferred Stock—Series B and Series C Preferred Stock” below, upon settlement of the Equity Units, CIC would be entitled to receive 116,062,911 shares of the Company’s common
stock, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. In June 2009, to maintain its pro rata share in the Company’s share capital, CIC participated in the Company’s registered public offering of 85,890,277 shares by purchasing 45,290,576 shares of
the Company’s common stock.    Redemption of CIC Equity
Units and Issuance of Common Stock.    On July 1,
2010, Moody’s announced that it was lowering the equity credit assigned to such Equity Units. The terms of the Equity Units permitted the Company to redeem the junior subordinated debentures underlying the Equity Units upon a
Rating Agency Event. In response to this Rating Agency Event, the Company redeemed the junior subordinated debentures in August 2010 and the redemption proceeds were subsequently used by the CIC Entity to settle its obligation under
the purchase contracts. The settlement of the purchase contracts and delivery of 116,062,911 shares of Company common stock to the CIC Entity occurred in August 2010. 
  Earnings per Share. 
  Prior to October 13, 2008, the impact of the Equity Units was reflected
in the Company’s earnings per diluted common share using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the number of shares of common stock included in the calculation of earnings per diluted common share was calculated as the
excess, if 
 









 
221
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

any, of the number of shares expected to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contract based on the average market price for the last 20 days of the reporting period, less the number
of shares that could be purchased by the Company with the proceeds to be received upon settlement of the contract at the average closing price for the reporting period. 
  Dilution of net income per share occurred (i) in reporting periods when
the average closing price of common shares was over $57.6840 per share or (ii) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares for a reporting period was between $48.0700 and $57.6840 and was greater than the average market
price for the last 20 days ending three days prior to the end of such reporting period.    Effective October 13, 2008 (as a result of the adjustment to the Equity Units as described above) and prior to the quarter ended June 30, 2010, the Company included the Equity Units in the
diluted EPS calculation using the more dilutive of the two-class method or the treasury stock method. The Equity Units participated in substantially all of the earnings of the Company (i.e., any earnings above $0.27 per quarter) in basic
EPS (assuming a full distribution of earnings of the Company), and therefore, the Equity Units generally would not have been included as incremental shares in the diluted calculation under the treasury stock method. During 2010, no dividends above
$0.27 per share were declared during any quarterly reporting period.    Beginning in the quarter ended June 30, 2010, and prior to the redemption of the junior subordinated debentures underlying the Equity Units and issuance of common stock, the Company included the
Equity Units in the diluted EPS calculation using the more dilutive of the two-class method or the if-converted method. See Note 2 for further discussion of the two-class method and Note 16 for the dilutive impact for 2011, 2010 and 2009.
   The Equity Units did not share in any losses of the Company for
purposes of calculating EPS. Therefore, if the Company incurred a loss in any reporting period, losses were not allocated to the Equity Units in the EPS calculation under the two-class method.    Common Equity Offerings.  
During 2009, the Company issued common stock for approximately $6.9 billion in two registered public offerings. MUFG elected to participate in both
offerings, and in one of the offerings, MUFG received $0.7 billion of common stock in exchange for 640,909 shares of the Company’s Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock (“Series C Preferred Stock”). 
  Rabbi Trusts.
  The Company has established Rabbi Trusts to provide common stock voting
rights to certain employees who hold outstanding RSUs. The assets of the Rabbi Trusts are consolidated with those of the Company, and the value of the Company’s stock held in the Rabbi Trusts is classified in Morgan Stanley shareholders’
equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. 
 











 
222
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Preferred Stock. 
  The Company’s preferred stock outstanding consisted of the following:
  
























 
  
DividendRate(Annual)
 
 
SharesOutstandingat December31, 2011
 
  
 
 
  
Carrying Value
 

 Series
  
 
  
LiquidationPreferenceper Share
 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 A
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
44,000
  
  
$
25,000
  
  
$
1,100
  
  
$
1,100
  

 B
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,089
  

 C
  
 
10.0
% 
 
 
519,882
  
  
 
1,000
  
  
 
408
  
  
 
408
  


  



 



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  



 



  



  
$
1,508
  
  
$
9,597
  


  



 



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
N/A—Not Available.   
The Company’s preferred stock qualifies as Tier 1 capital in accordance with regulatory capital requirements (see Note 14). 
  Series A Preferred Stock.    In July 2006, the
Company issued 44,000,000 Depositary Shares, in an aggregate of $1,100 million. Each Depositary Share represents 1/1,000th of a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value (“Series A
Preferred Stock”). The Series A Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company’s option, in whole or in part, on or after July 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per Depositary Share). The Series A
Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company’s common stock upon liquidation. In December 2011, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $255.56 per share of Series A Preferred Stock that was paid on January 17, 2012 to
preferred shareholders of record on December 30, 2011.   
Series B and Series C Preferred Stock.    On October 13, 2008, the Company issued to MUFG 7,839,209 shares of Series B
Preferred Stock and 1,160,791 shares of Series C Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $9 billion.   
The Series B Preferred Stock paid a non-cumulative dividend, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Company, in cash, at the rate of
10% per annum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, except under certain circumstances (as set forth in the securities purchase agreement for the sale of the Series B Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred Stock to MUFG).
   The Series C Preferred Stock is redeemable by the Company, in
whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $1,100 per share. Dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock are payable, on a non-cumulative basis, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Company, in cash, at
the rate of 10% per annum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. In December 2011, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series C Preferred Stock that was paid on January 17, 2012 to preferred
shareholders of record on December 30, 2011.    The $9 billion
in proceeds was allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred Stock based on their relative fair values at issuance (approximately $8.1 billion was allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock and approximately $0.9 billion to
the Series C Preferred Stock). Upon redemption by the Company, the excess of the redemption value of $1,100 per share over the carrying value of the Series C Preferred Stock ($0.9 billion allocated at inception or approximately $784 per share) will
be charged to Retained earnings (i.e., treated in a 
 









 
223
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

manner similar to the treatment of dividends paid). The amount charged to Retained earnings will be deducted from the numerator in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share during the
related reporting period in which the Series C Preferred Stock is redeemed by the Company (see Note 16 for additional details).   
During 2009, 640,909 shares of the Series C Preferred Stock were redeemed with an aggregate price equal to the aggregate price exchanged by MUFG for
approximately $0.7 billion of common stock, resulting in a negative adjustment of approximately $202 million in calculating earnings per basic and diluted share. 
  During 2011, the Company and MUFG completed the conversion of MUFG Series B
Preferred Stock (see “MUFG Stock Conversion” herein).   
Series D Preferred Stock and Warrant.    On October 26, 2008, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase
Agreement—Standard Terms with the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, the Company sold to the U.S. Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $10 billion, 10 million shares of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (“Series D Preferred Stock”) and a warrant to purchase 65,245,759 shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Warrant”), of the Company at
an exercise price of $22.99 per share.    The $10 billion in
proceeds was allocated to the Series D Preferred Stock and the Warrant based on their relative fair values at issuance (approximately $9 billion was allocated to the Series D Preferred Stock and approximately $1 billion to the Warrant). The
difference between the initial value allocated to the Series D Preferred Stock of approximately $9 billion and the liquidation value of $10 billion was to be charged to Retained earnings over the first five years of the contract as an adjustment to
the dividend yield using the effective yield method. The amount charged to Retained earnings was deducted from the numerator in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share during the related reporting period (see Note 16). 
  In June 2009, the Company repurchased the 10,000,000 shares of the Series D
Preferred Stock from the U.S. Treasury, at the liquidation preference amount plus accrued and unpaid dividends, for an aggregate repurchase price of $10,086 million. 
  As a result of the Company’s repurchasing the Series D Preferred Stock,
the Company incurred a one-time negative adjustment of $850 million in its calculation of basic and diluted EPS (reduction to earnings (losses) applicable to the Company’s common shareholders) for 2009 due to the accelerated amortization of the
issuance discount on the Series D Preferred Stock.    In August
2009, under the terms of the Capital Purchase Program securities purchase agreement, the Company repurchased the Warrant from the U.S. Treasury in the amount of $950 million. The repurchase of the Series D Preferred Stock, in the amount of $10.0
billion and the Warrant in the amount of $950 million, reduced the Company’s total equity by $10,950 million in 2009.   
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).    At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the components of the
Company’s Accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows (dollars in millions):   












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
 
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax
  
$
5
  
 
$
40
  

 Amortization expense related to terminated cash flow hedges, net of tax
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
(18
) 

 Pension, postretirement and other related adjustments, net of tax
  
 
(274
) 
 
 
(525
) 

 Net unrealized gain on securities available for sale, net of tax
  
 
123
  
 
 
36
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax
  
$
(157
) 
 
$
(467
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 











 
224
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments.    Cumulative foreign
currency translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements from their respective functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects. The Company
uses foreign currency contracts and designates certain non-U.S. dollar currency debt as hedges to manage the currency exposure relating to its net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the value
of the Company’s net foreign investments generally are tax deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge gains and losses are taxable currently. The Company attempts to protect its net book value from the effects of fluctuations in currency
exchange rates on its net investments in non-U.S. dollar subsidiaries by selling the appropriate non-U.S. dollar currency in the forward market. Under some circumstances, however, the Company may elect not to hedge its net investments in certain
foreign operations due to market conditions, including the availability of various currency contracts at acceptable costs. Information at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 relating to the effects on cumulative foreign currency
translation adjustments resulting from translation of foreign currency financial statements and from gains and losses from hedges of the Company’s net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is summarized below:
  












 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
 
AtDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries designated in hedges
  
$
12,325
  
 
$
10,990
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from net investments in subsidiaries with a non-U.S. dollar
functional currency
  
$
581
  
 
$
544
  

 Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from realized or unrealized losses on hedges, net of
tax
  
 
(576
) 
 
 
(504
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax
  
$
5
  
 
$
40
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Noncontrolling Interests. 
  Deconsolidation of Subsidiaries. 
  During 2009, the Company deconsolidated MSCI in connection with the
Company’s disposition of its remaining ownership interest in MSCI and recognized an after-tax gain of approximately $279 million. The Company did not retain any investment in MSCI upon deconsolidation. See Notes 1 and 25 for further information
on discontinued operations.    Changes in the Company’s
Ownership Interest in Subsidiaries.    The following table
presents the effect on the Company’s shareholders’ equity from changes in ownership of subsidiaries resulting from transactions with noncontrolling interests.   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
      2011      
 
  
      2010      
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
4,110
  
  
$
4,703
  

 Transfers from the noncontrolling interests:
  



  




 Increase in paid-in capital in connection with the MUFG transaction (see Note 24)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
731
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net transfers from noncontrolling interests
  
 
—  
  
  
 
731
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Change from net income applicable to Morgan Stanley and transfers from noncontrolling interests
  
$
4,110
  
  
$
5,434
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 









 
225
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
In connection with the transaction between the Company and MUFG to form a joint venture in Japan, the
Company recorded an after-tax gain of $731 million from the sale of a noncontrolling interest in its Japanese institutional securities business. This gain was recorded in Paid-in capital in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial
condition at December 31, 2010 and changes in total equity for the year ended December 31, 2010. See Note 24 for further information regarding the MUFG transaction. 
  Distributions to Noncontrolling Interests. 
  The following transactions represent the significant distributions to
noncontrolling interests. Distributions to noncontrolling interest related to MSMS were $416 million in 2011. Distributions to noncontrolling interest related to MSSB were $346 million and $306 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  16.    Earnings per Common Share. 
  Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to Morgan Stanley common
shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Common shares outstanding include common stock and vested RSUs where recipients have satisfied either the explicit vesting terms or retirement eligibility
requirements. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities. The Company calculates EPS using the two-class method and determines whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities
(see Note 2). The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS (in millions, except for per share data):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Basic EPS:
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
  
$
4,696
  
 
$
5,477
  
 
$
1,427
  

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
225
  
 
 
(21
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
4,645
  
 
 
5,702
  
 
 
1,406
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
535
  
 
 
999
  
 
 
60
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
 
4,110
  
 
 
4,703
  
 
 
1,346
  

 Less: Preferred dividends (Series A Preferred Stock)
  
 
(44
) 
 
 
(45
) 
 
 
(45
) 

 Less: Preferred dividends (Series B Preferred Stock)
  
 
(196
) 
 
 
(784
) 
 
 
(784
) 

 Less: MUFG stock conversion
  
 
(1,726
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Less: Preferred dividends (Series C Preferred Stock)
  
 
(52
) 
 
 
(52
) 
 
 
(68
) 

 Less: Partial redemption of Series C Preferred Stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(202
) 

 Less: Preferred dividends (Series D Preferred Stock)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(212
) 

 Less: Amortization and acceleration of issuance discount for Series D Preferred Stock(1)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(932
) 

 Less: Allocation of earnings to participating RSUs(2):
  



 



 




 From continuing operations
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
(108
) 
 
 
(10
) 

 From discontinued operations
  
 
1
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Less: Allocation of undistributed earnings to Equity Units(1):
  



 



 




 From continuing operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(102
) 
 
 
—  
  

 From discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders
  
$
2,067
  
 
$
3,594
  
 
$
(907
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
1,655
  
 
 
1,362
  
 
 
1,185
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share:
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
1.28
  
 
$
2.49
  
 
$
(0.73
) 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.15
  
 
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share
  
$
1.25
  
 
$
2.64
  
 
$
(0.77
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 











 
226
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Diluted EPS:
  



 



  




 Earnings (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders
  
$
2,067
  
 
$
3,594
  
  
$
(907
) 

 Impact on income of assumed conversions:
  



 



  




 Assumed conversion of Equity Units(1)(3)
  



 



  




 From continuing operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
76
  
  
 
—  
  

 From discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
40
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) applicable to common shareholders plus assumed conversions
  
$
2,067
  
 
$
3,710
  
  
$
(907
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
1,655
  
 
 
1,362
  
  
 
1,185
  

 Effect of dilutive securities:
  



 



  




 Stock options and RSUs(2)
  
 
20
  
 
 
5
  
  
 
—  
  

 Equity Units(1)(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
44
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding and common stock equivalents
  
 
1,675
  
 
 
1,411
  
  
 
1,185
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share:
  



 



  




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
1.26
  
 
$
2.45
  
  
$
(0.73
) 

 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.18
  
  
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share
  
$
1.23
  
 
$
2.63
  
  
$
(0.77
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
See Note 15 for further information on Equity Units. 


(2)
RSUs that are considered participating securities participate in all of the earnings of the Company in the computation of basic EPS, and therefore, such RSUs are not
included as incremental shares in the diluted calculation. 


(3)
Prior to the quarter ended June 30, 2010, the Company included the Equity Units in the diluted EPS calculation using the more dilutive of the two-class method or
the treasury stock method. The Equity Units participated in substantially all of the earnings of the Company (i.e., any earnings above $0.27 per quarter) in basic EPS (assuming a full distribution of earnings of the Company), and therefore, the
Equity Units generally would not have been included as incremental shares in the diluted calculation under the treasury stock method. Beginning in the quarter ended June 30, 2010, and prior to the redemption of the junior subordinated
debentures underlying the Equity Units and issuance of common stock in the third quarter of 2010, the Company included the Equity Units in the diluted EPS calculation using the more dilutive of the two-class method or the if-converted method. See
Note 2 on the Company’s method for calculating EPS.    The following securities were considered antidilutive and, therefore, were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS:   
















 Number of Antidilutive Securities Outstanding at End of Period:
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(shares in millions)
 

 RSUs and PSUs
  
 
21
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
62
  

 Stock options
  
 
57
  
  
 
67
  
  
 
82
  

 Equity Units(1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
116
  

 Series B Preferred Stock
  
 
—  
  
  
 
311
  
  
 
311
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
78
  
  
 
416
  
  
 
571
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
See Notes 2 and 15 for additional information on the Equity Units regarding the change in methodology to the if-converted method and the redemption of the junior
subordinated debentures underlying the Equity Units and issuance of common stock. 
 









 
227
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
17.    Interest Income and Interest Expense. 
  Details of Interest income and Interest expense were as
follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Interest income(1):
  



 



 




 Financial instruments owned(2)
  
$
3,593
  
 
$
3,931
  
 
$
4,931
  

 Securities available for sale
  
 
348
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
—  
  

 Loans
  
 
356
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
229
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks
  
 
186
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
241
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed
  
 
886
  
 
 
769
  
 
 
859
  

 Other
  
 
1,895
  
 
 
1,926
  
 
 
1,217
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Interest income
  
$
7,264
  
 
$
7,311
  
 
$
7,477
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest expense(1):
  



 



 




 Deposits
  
$
236
  
 
$
310
  
 
$
782
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
  
 
41
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
51
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
4,912
  
 
 
4,592
  
 
 
4,898
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned
  
 
1,925
  
 
 
1,591
  
 
 
1,374
  

 Other
  
 
(207
) 
 
 
(107
) 
 
 
(418
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Interest expense
  
$
6,907
  
 
$
6,414
  
 
$
6,687
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
$
357
  
 
$
897
  
 
$
790
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Interest income and expense are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument and related market conventions. When
interest is included as a component of the instrument’s fair value, interest is included within Principal transactions—Trading revenues or Principal transactions—Investments revenues. Otherwise, it is included within Interest income
or Interest expense. 


(2)
Interest expense on Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is reported as a reduction to Interest income. 
  18.    Sale of Bankruptcy Claims Related to a
Derivative Counterparty.    During 2009, the Company entered
into multiple participation agreements with certain investors whereby the Company sold undivided participating interests representing 81% (or $1,105 million) of certain claims totaling $1,362 million, pursuant to International Swaps and Derivatives
Association (“ISDA”) master agreements, against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection. The Company received cash proceeds of $429 million and recorded a gain on sale of $319 million in 2009. 
  As a result of the bankruptcy of the derivative counterparty, the Company, as
contractually entitled, exercised remedies as the non-defaulting party and determined the value of the claims under the ISDA master agreements in a commercially reasonable manner. The Company filed its claims with the bankruptcy court. In connection
with the sale of the undivided participating interests in a portion of the claims, the Company provided certain representations and warranties related to the allowance of the amount stated in the claims submitted to the bankruptcy court. The Company
recorded a liability for the fair value of this possible disallowance of claims. The fair value was determined by assessing mid-market values of the underlying transactions, where possible, prevailing bid-offer spreads around the time of the
bankruptcy filing, and applying valuation adjustments related to estimating unwind costs. During 2011, the bankruptcy court reached a decision relating to the claims allowed. As a result of this decision, the Company released the liability for
possible disallowance, made payments to certain investors pursuant to its representations and warranties and recorded a net gain of $56 million.   
 











 
228
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
During 2011, the Company entered into participation agreements with certain investors whereby the
Company sold participating interests representing the remaining 19% interest of these claims. The Company recorded a gain on sale of $58 million in 2011. Because these sales were made after the court decision, the Company made no representations and
warranties relating to disallowance.    The investors bear full
price risk associated with the allowed claims as it relates to the liquidation proceeds from the bankruptcy estate. The Company also agreed to service the claims and, as such, recorded a liability for the fair value of the servicing obligation. The
Company continues to measure this servicing obligation at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. The change in fair value of the servicing obligation recorded in earnings in 2011 was immaterial. The servicing obligation is
reflected in the consolidated statements of financial condition as Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased—Derivatives and other contracts, in Note 4 as a Level 3 instrument, and in Note 12 as derivatives not designated as accounting
hedges.    All gains related to these claims are reflected in the
consolidated statements of income in Principal transactions—Trading revenues within the Institutional Securities business segment.   
19.    Other Revenues.   
Details of Other revenues were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Gain on China International Capital Corporation Ltd. (see Note 24)
  
$
—  
  
 
$
668
  
 
$
—  
  

 Gain on sale of Invesco shares (see Note 1)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
—  
  

 FrontPoint impairment charges (see Note 24)
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
(126
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Gain (loss) on retirement of long-term debt (see Note 11)
  
 
155
  
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
491
  

 Other(1)
  
 
84
  
 
 
654
  
 
 
216
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
209
  
 
$
1,271
  
 
$
707
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Other revenues in 2011 and 2010 included pre-tax losses of approximately $783 million and $62 million, respectively, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”) (see Note 24).    20.    Employee Stock-Based Compensation Plans.   
The accounting guidance for stock-based compensation requires measurement of compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of
compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures (see Note 2).    The components of the Company’s stock-based compensation expense (net of cancellations) are presented below:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Deferred stock
  
$
1,057
  
  
$
1,075
  
  
$
1,120
  

 Stock options
  
 
24
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
17
  

 Performance-based stock units
  
 
32
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
—  
  

 Employee Stock Purchase Plan(1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total(2)
  
$
1,113
  
  
$
1,115
  
  
$
1,141
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The Company discontinued the Employee Stock Purchase Plan effective June 1, 2009. 


(2)
Amounts for 2011, 2010 and 2009 include $186 million, $222 million and $198 million, respectively, primarily related to equity awards that were granted in 2012, 2011
and 2010, respectively, to employees who are retirement-eligible under the award terms. 
 









 
229
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The table above excludes stock-based compensation expense recorded in discontinued operations, which was
approximately $3 million and $11 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Notes 1 and 25 for additional information on discontinued operations.   
The tax benefit for stock-based compensation expense related to deferred stock and stock options was $383 million, $382 million and $380 million for 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. The tax benefit for stock-based compensation expense included in discontinued operations in 2010 and 2009 was approximately $1 million and $3 million, respectively. 
  At December 31, 2011, the Company had $873 million of unrecognized
compensation cost related to unvested stock-based awards (excluding 2011 year-end awards granted in January 2012 to nonretirement-eligible employees, which will begin to amortize in 2012). The unrecognized compensation cost relating to unvested
stock-based awards expected to vest will primarily be recognized over the next two years.    In connection with awards under its equity-based compensation plans, the Company is authorized to issue shares of its common stock held in treasury or newly issued shares. At December 31, 2011,
approximately 108 million shares were available for future grant under these plans.    The Company generally uses treasury shares to deliver shares to employees and has an ongoing repurchase authorization that includes repurchases in connection with awards granted under its equity-based
compensation plans. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. See Note 15 for additional information on the Company’s share repurchase program. 
  Deferred Stock Awards.    The Company has
made deferred stock awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans. The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees’ discretionary compensation with awards made in the form of restricted common stock or in
the right to receive unrestricted shares of common stock in the future (“RSUs”). Awards under these plans are generally subject to vesting over time contingent upon continued employment and to restrictions on sale, transfer or assignment
until the end of a specified period, generally two to three years from date of grant. All or a portion of an award may be canceled if employment is terminated before the end of the relevant restriction period. All or a portion of a vested award also
may be canceled in certain limited situations, including termination for cause during the relevant restriction period. Recipients of deferred stock awards generally have voting rights and receive dividend equivalents. 
  The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company’s vested
and unvested RSUs (share data in millions):   












 
  
2011
 

 
  
Number ofShares
 
 
Weighted AverageGrant Date FairValue
 

 RSUs at beginning of period
  
 
109
  
 
$
32.10
  

 Granted
  
 
41
  
 
 
28.94
  

 Conversions to common stock
  
 
(33
) 
 
 
39.58
  

 Canceled
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
29.63
  


  
  
  
 
 




 RSUs at end of period(1)
  
 
111
  
 
$
28.82
  


  
  
  
 
 



  


(1)
At December 31, 2011, approximately 104 million RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $28.89 were vested or expected to vest.

 











 
230
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The weighted average price for RSUs granted during 2010 and 2009 was $28.95 and $26.30, respectively. At
December 31, 2011, the weighted-average remaining term until delivery for the Company’s outstanding RSUs was approximately 1.4 years.   
At December 31, 2011, the intrinsic value of outstanding RSUs was $1,687 million.    The total fair market value of RSUs converted to common stock during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $935 million, $971 million and
$151 million, respectively. The lower value of RSUs converting to common stock in 2009 compared with 2010 and 2011 reflects the impact of a modification in fiscal 2008 to accelerate the conversion of certain RSUs from 2009 to fiscal 2008.
   The following table sets forth activity relating to the
Company’s unvested RSUs (share data in millions):   












 
  
2011
 

 
  
Number ofShares
 
 
Weighted AverageGrant Date FairValue
 

 Unvested RSUs at beginning of period
  
 
76
  
 
$
30.29
  

 Granted
  
 
41
  
 
 
28.94
  

 Vested
  
 
(33
) 
 
 
33.30
  

 Canceled
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
29.60
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Unvested RSUs at end of period(1)
  
 
78
  
 
$
28.32
  


  
  
  
 
 



  


(1)
Unvested RSUs represent awards where recipients have yet to satisfy either the explicit vesting terms or retirement-eligible requirements. At December 31, 2011,
approximately 70 million unvested RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $28.37 were expected to vest.   
Stock Option Awards.    The Company has granted stock option awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans.
The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees’ discretionary compensation with awards made in the form of stock options generally having an exercise price not less than the fair value of the Company’s common
stock on the date of grant. Such stock option awards generally become exercisable over a three-year period and expire seven to 10 years from the date of grant, subject to accelerated expiration upon termination of employment. Stock option awards
have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are generally similar to those in deferred stock awards. The weighted average fair value of the Company’s options granted during 2011 was $8.24, utilizing the following weighted average
assumptions:   




















 Grant Year
  
Risk-Free InterestRate
 
 
Expected Life
 
  
Expected StockPrice Volatility
 
 
Expected DividendYield
 

 2011
  
 
2.1
% 
 
 
5.0 years
  
  
 
32.7
% 
 
 
1.5
% 
   No options were granted during 2010 or 2009.
   The Company’s expected option life has been determined based
upon historical experience. The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility of exchange-traded options, in accordance with accounting guidance for share-based payments. The risk-free interest rate was
determined based on the yields available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues. 
 









 
231
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company’s stock options (option data in
millions):   












 
  
2011
 

 
  
Number ofOptions
 
 
WeightedAverageExercise Price
 

 Options outstanding at beginning of period
  
 
67
  
 
$
50.35
  

 Granted
  
 
4
  
 
 
30.01
  

 Canceled
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
54.32
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Options outstanding at end of period(1)
  
 
57
  
 
 
48.15
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Options exercisable at end of period
  
 
53
  
 
 
49.33
  


  
  
  
 
 



  


(1)
At December 31, 2011, approximately 56 million awards with a weighted average exercise price of $48.46 were vested or expected to vest.
   There were no stock options exercised during 2011,
2010 or 2009. At December 31, 2011, the intrinsic value of in-the-money exercisable stock options was not material.   
The following table presents information relating to the Company’s stock options outstanding at December 31, 2011 (number of options data in
millions):   




























 At December 31, 2011
 
Options Outstanding
 
 
Options Exercisable
 

 Range of Exercise Prices
 
NumberOutstanding
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price
 
 
AverageRemaining Life(Years)
 
 
NumberExercisable
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price
 
 
AverageRemainingLife (Years)
 

 $28.00 – $39.99
 
 
14
  
 
$
34.71
  
 
 
2.2
  
 
 
10
  
 
$
36.22
  
 
 
1.0
  

 $40.00 – $49.99
 
 
30
  
 
 
47.21
  
 
 
1.3
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
47.21
  
 
 
1.3
  

 $50.00 – $59.99
 
 
1
  
 
 
52.09
  
 
 
4.0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
52.09
  
 
 
4.0
  

 $60.00 – $76.99
 
 
12
  
 
 
66.75
  
 
 
4.9
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
66.75
  
 
 
4.9
  


 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total
 
 
57
  
 



 



 
 
53
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



   Performance-Based Stock Unit
Awards.    The Company granted two million PSUs to senior executives in both 2011 and 2010. These PSUs will vest and convert to shares of common stock at the end of performance period only if the Company satisfies
predetermined performance and market goals over the three-year performance period that began on January 1 of the grant year and ends three years later on December 31. Under the terms of the grant, the number of PSUs that will actually vest
and convert to shares will be based on the extent to which the Company achieves the specified performance goals during the performance period. Performance-based stock unit awards have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are
generally similar to those in deferred stock awards.    One-half of
the award will be earned based on the Company’s return on average common shareholders’ equity, excluding the impact of revenues related to the Company’s credit spreads and other credit factors for certain of the Company’s
long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, that are accounted for at fair value (“Average ROE”). A multiplier of zero will be applied in the event of a three-year Average ROE of less than 7.5%, and a maximum
multiplier of 2 will be applied in the event of a three-year Average ROE of 18% or greater. The fair value per share of this portion of the award for 2011 and 2010 was $29.89 and $29.32, respectively. 
 











 
232
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
One-half of the award will be earned based on the Company’s total shareholder return, relative to
the members of a comparison peer group. A maximum multiplier of 2 can be applied for achieving the highest ranking within the comparison group, with multipliers diminishing down to zero for lower rankings. The fair value per share of this portion of
the award for 2011 and 2010 was $43.14 and $41.52, respectively, estimated on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation and the following assumptions.   
















 Grant Year
  
Risk-Free InterestRate
 
 
Expected StockPrice Volatility
 
 
Expected DividendYield
 

 2011
  
 
1.0
% 
 
 
89.0
% 
 
 
1.5
% 

 2010
  
 
1.5
% 
 
 
89.9
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
   Because the payout depends on the
Company’s total shareholder return relative to a comparison group, the valuation also depended on the performance of the stocks in the comparison group as well as estimates of the correlations among their performance. The expected stock price
volatility assumption was determined using historical volatility because correlation coefficients can only be developed through historical volatility. The expected dividend yield was based on historical dividend payments. The risk-free interest rate
was determined based on the yields available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues.    At December 31, 2011, approximately 4 million PSUs were outstanding.   
21.    Employee Benefit Plans.   
The Company sponsors various pension plans for the majority of its U.S. and non-U.S. employees. The Company provides certain other postretirement
benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible U.S. employees. The Company also provides certain postemployment benefits to certain former employees or inactive employees prior to retirement. 
  Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans.    Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Company and its U.S. affiliates who were hired before July 1, 2007 are covered by the U.S. Qualified Plan, a non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan
that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “U.S. Qualified Plan”). Unfunded supplementary plans (the “Supplemental Plans”) cover certain executives. In addition, certain of the Company’s
non-U.S. subsidiaries also have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of their employees. These pension plans generally provide pension benefits that are based on each employee’s years of credited service and on compensation
levels specified in the plans. The Company’s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax laws. Liabilities for benefits payable under the Supplemental Plans
are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries. The Company’s U.S. Qualified Plan was closed to new hires effective July 1, 2007. In lieu of a defined benefit pension plan, eligible employees (excluding legacy
Smith Barney employees) who were first hired, rehired or transferred to a U.S. benefits eligible position on or after July 1, 2007 received a retirement contribution under the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan. On December 23, 2010, the Morgan
Stanley 401(k) Plan was amended to cease allocating a retirement contribution with respect to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2011.   
On June 1, 2010, the U.S. Qualified Plan was amended to cease future benefit accruals after December 31, 2010. Any benefits earned by
participants under the U.S. Qualified Plan at December 31, 2010 were preserved and will be payable based on the U.S. Qualified Plan’s provisions. As a result, the Company recorded a curtailment gain that reduced Compensation and
benefits expense by approximately $51 million in the consolidated statements of income for 2010. Additionally, the Company remeasured the obligation and assets of the U.S. Qualified Plan at May 31, 2010 due to such cessation of
accruals for benefits. 
 









 
233
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The Company also has an unfunded postretirement benefit plan that provides medical and life insurance
for eligible U.S. retirees and medical insurance for their dependents.    On October 29, 2010, the Morgan Stanley U.S. Medical Plan was amended to change eligibility requirements for a Company-provided subsidy toward the cost of retiree medical coverage after
December 31, 2010. As a result, the Company recorded a curtailment gain that reduced Compensation and benefits expense by approximately $4 million in the consolidated statements of income for 2010. Additionally, the
Company remeasured the obligation and assets of the postretirement plan at October 31, 2010 for this amendment.   
Net Periodic Benefit Expense.   
The following table presents the components of the net periodic benefit expense for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 
 




























 
  
Pensions
 
 
Postretirement
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Service cost, benefits earned during the period
  
$
27
  
 
$
99
  
 
$
116
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
7
  
 
$
12
  

 Interest cost on projected benefit obligation
  
 
158
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
12
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(131
) 
 
 
(128
) 
 
 
(125
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net amortization of prior service costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Net amortization of actuarial loss
  
 
17
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
3
  

 Curtailment gain
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Settlement loss
  
 
1
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit expense
  
$
72
  
 
$
96
  
 
$
175
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
12
  
 
$
26
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Other changes in plan assets and benefit
obligations recognized in other comprehensive loss (income) on a pre-tax basis in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:   




























 
  
Pension
 
 
Postretirement
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Net loss (gain)
  
$
(401
) 
 
$
34
  
 
$
509
  
 
$
(5
) 
 
$
2
  
 
$
(25
) 

 Prior service cost (credit)
  
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Amortization of prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
1
  

 Amortization of net loss
  
 
(18
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive loss (income)
  
$
(417
) 
 
$
61
  
 
$
461
  
 
$
7
  
 
$
(46
) 
 
$
(27
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The Company, for most plans, amortizes (as a
component of pension and postretirement expense) unrecognized net gains and losses over the average future service of active participants to the extent that the gain (loss) exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the
market-related value of plan assets. Effective January 1, 2011, the U.S. Qualified Plan amortizes the unrecognized net gains and losses using the average life expectancy of participants. 
 











 
234
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit
costs for 2011, 2010 and 2009:   




























 
  
Pensions
 
 
Postretirement
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Discount rate
  
 
5.44
% 
 
 
5.91
% 
 
 
5.75
% 
 
 
5.41
% 
 
 
6.00/5.35%
  
  
 
5.78
% 

 Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets
  
 
4.78
  
 
 
4.78
  
 
 
5.21
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  

 Rate of future compensation increases
  
 
2.28
  
 
 
5.13
  
 
 
5.12
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
N/A—Not Applicable.   
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets represents the Company’s best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets. For the U.S.
Qualified Plan, the expected long-term rate of return was estimated by computing a weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the plan’s fixed income assets based on the investment managers’ target allocations
within this asset class. The expected long-term return on assets is a long-term assumption that generally is expected to remain the same from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and
expenses paid by the plan or market conditions. The U.S. Qualified Plan has 100% investment in fixed income securities and related derivative securities, including interest rate swap contracts. This asset allocation is expected to help protect the
plan’s funded status and limit volatility of the Company’s contributions. Total U.S. Qualified Plan portfolio performance is assessed by comparing actual investment performance with changes in the estimated present value of the U.S.
Qualified Plan’s liability. 
 









 
235
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Benefit Obligations and Funded Status.    The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for 2011
and 2010:   












 
  
Pension
 
 
Postretirement
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Reconciliation of benefit obligation:
  



 




 Benefit obligation at December 31, 2009
  
$
2,630
  
 
$
203
  

 Service cost
  
 
99
  
 
 
7
  

 Interest cost
  
 
152
  
 
 
11
  

 Actuarial loss
  
 
264
  
 
 
2
  

 Plan amendments
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(54
) 

 Plan curtailments
  
 
(82
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Plan settlements
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(100
) 
 
 
(14
) 

 Other, including foreign currency exchange rate changes
  
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at December 31, 2010
  
$
2,953
  
 
$
155
  

 Service cost
  
 
27
  
 
 
4
  

 Interest cost
  
 
158
  
 
 
8
  

 Actuarial loss (gain)
  
 
490
  
 
 
(4
) 

 Plan amendments
  
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  

 Plan settlements
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(98
) 
 
 
(9
) 

 Other, including foreign currency exchange rate changes
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at December 31, 2011
  
$
3,517
  
 
$
154
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets:
  



 




 Fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2009
  
$
2,406
  
 
$
—  
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
276
  
 
 
—  
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
72
  
 
 
14
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(100
) 
 
 
(14
) 

 Plan settlements
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other, including foreign currency exchange rates changes
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2010
  
$
2,642
  
 
$
—  
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
1,024
  
 
 
—  
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
57
  
 
 
9
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(98
) 
 
 
(9
) 

 Plan settlements
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other, including foreign currency exchange rates changes
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2011
  
$
3,604
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 











 
236
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following table presents a summary of the funded status at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010:   




















 
  
Pension
 
 
Postretirement
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Funded (unfunded) status
  
$
87
  
 
$
(311
) 
 
$
(154
) 
 
$
(155
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition consist of:
  



 



 



 




 Assets
  
$
495
  
 
$
54
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Liabilities
  
 
(408
) 
 
 
(365
) 
 
 
(154
) 
 
 
(155
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net amount recognized
  
$
87
  
 
$
(311
) 
 
$
(154
) 
 
$
(155
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of:
  



 



 



 




 Prior service credit
  
$
(5
) 
 
$
(7
) 
 
$
(38
) 
 
$
(52
) 

 Net loss
  
 
432
  
 
 
851
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
34
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net loss (gain) recognized
  
$
427
  
 
$
844
  
 
$
(11
) 
 
$
(18
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The estimated prior service credit that will
be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over 2012 is $14 million for postretirement plans. The estimated net loss that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic
benefit cost over 2012 is approximately $26 million for defined benefit pension plans and $2 million for postretirement plans.   
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $3,458 million and $2,899 million at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively.    The following table
contains information for pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets at period-end:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
567
  
  
$
498
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
159
  
  
 
133
  
   The following table contains information for
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets at period-end:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
$
450
  
  
$
400
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
85
  
  
 
72
  

 









 
237
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at
period-end:   




















 
  
Pension
 
 
Postretirement
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Discount rate
  
 
4.57
% 
 
 
5.44
% 
 
 
4.56
% 
 
 
5.41
% 

 Rate of future compensation increase
  
 
2.14
  
 
 
2.43
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
  
N/A—Not Applicable.   
The discount rates used to determine the benefit obligations for the U.S. pension plans, U.S. postretirement plan and the U.K. pension plan’s
liabilities were selected by the Company, in consultation with its independent actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the plans, each determined independently. The pension discount yield curve represents spot
discount yields based on duration implicit in a representative broad based Aa corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income investments. For all other non-U.S. pension plans, the Company set the assumed discount rates based on the nature of
liabilities, local economic environments and available bond indices.    The following table presents assumed health care cost trend rates used to determine the U.S. postretirement benefit obligations at period-end: 
 












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year:
  



  




 Medical
  
 
6.95-7.68%
  
  
 
6.98-7.84%
  

 Prescription
  
 
9.08%
  
  
 
9.53%
  

 Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (ultimate trend rate)
  
 
4.50%
  
  
 
4.50%
  

 Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate
  
 
2029   
  
  
 
2029   
  
   Assumed health care cost trend rates can have
a significant effect on the amounts reported for the Company’s postretirement benefit plan. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: 
 












 
  
One-PercentagePoint Increase
 
  
One-PercentagePoint (Decrease)
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Effect on total postretirement service and interest cost
  
$
2
  
  
$
(2
) 

 Effect on postretirement benefit obligation
  
 
22
  
  
 
(17
) 
   No impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 has been reflected in the Company’s consolidated statements of income as Medicare prescription drug coverage was deemed to have no material effect on the Company’s postretirement benefit plan.
   Plan Assets.    The U.S. Qualified
Plan assets represent 89% of the Company’s total pension plan assets. The U.S. Qualified Plan uses a combination of active and risk-controlled fixed income investment strategies. The fixed income asset allocation consists primarily of fixed
income securities designed to approximate the expected cash flows of the plan’s liabilities in order to help reduce plan exposure to interest rate variation and to better align assets with obligations. The longer duration fixed income
allocation is expected to help protect the plan’s funded status and maintain the stability of plan contributions over the long run. 
 











 
238
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The allocation by investment manager of the Company’s U.S. Qualified Plan is reviewed by the Morgan
Stanley Retirement Plan Investment Committee (“Investment Committee”) on a regular basis. When the exposure to a given investment manager reaches a minimum or maximum allocation level, an asset allocation review process is initiated, and
the portfolio will be automatically rebalanced back closer toward the target allocation unless the Investment Committee determines otherwise.   
Derivative instruments are permitted in the U.S. Qualified Plan’s portfolio only to the extent that they comply with all of the plan’s policy
guidelines and are consistent with the plan’s risk and return objectives. In addition, any investment in derivatives must meet the following conditions:   


 
•
 
 Derivatives may be used only if they are deemed by the investment manager to be more attractive than a similar direct investment in the underlying cash
market or if the vehicle is being used to manage risk of the portfolio.   


 
•
 
 Derivatives may not be used in a speculative manner or to leverage the portfolio under any circumstances. 
 


 
•
 
 Derivatives may not be used as short-term trading vehicles. The investment philosophy of the U.S. Qualified Plan is that investment activity is
undertaken for long-term investment rather than short-term trading.   


 
•
 
 Derivatives may only be used in the management of the U.S. Qualified Plan’s portfolio when their possible effects can be quantified, shown to
enhance the risk-return profile of the portfolio, and reported in a meaningful and understandable manner.   
As a fundamental operating principle, any restrictions on the underlying assets apply to a respective derivative product. This includes percentage
allocations and credit quality. Derivatives will be used solely for the purpose of enhancing investment in the underlying assets and not to circumvent portfolio restrictions. 
  The plan assets are measured at fair value using valuation techniques that
are consistent with the valuation techniques applied to the Company’s major categories of assets and liabilities as described in Note 4. Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for
the measurement, if available. If a quoted market price is available, the fair value is the product of the number of trading units multiplied by the market price. If a quoted market price is not available, the estimate of fair value is based on the
valuation approaches that maximize use of observable inputs and minimize use of unobservable inputs.    The fair value of OTC derivative contracts is derived primarily using pricing models, which may require multiple market input parameters. Derivative contracts are presented on a gross basis prior to cash
collateral or counterparty netting. Derivative contracts consist of investments in options and futures contracts, forward contracts and swaps.   
Commingled trust funds are privately offered funds available to institutional clients that are regulated, supervised and subject to periodic examination
by a federal or state agency. The trust must be maintained for the collective investment or reinvestment of assets contributed to it from employee benefit plans maintained by more than one employer or a controlled group of corporations. The sponsor
of the commingled trust funds values the funds’ net asset value (“NAV”) based on the fair value of the underlying securities. The underlying securities of the commingled trust funds consist of mainly long-duration fixed income
instruments. Commingled trust funds that are redeemable at the measurement date or in the near future are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, otherwise they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
  Some non-U.S. based plans hold foreign funds that consist of investments in
foreign corporate equity funds, foreign corporate bond funds and foreign target cash flow funds. Foreign corporate equity funds and foreign 
 









 
239
 






Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

corporate bond funds invest in individual securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange or traded in a regulated market and certain bond funds that aim to produce returns as close as possible
to certain Financial Times Stock Exchange indexes. Foreign target cash flow funds are designed to provide a series of fixed annual cash flows over five or 10 years achieved by investing in government bonds and derivatives. Foreign funds are
categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as they are readily redeemable at their NAV.    Other investments consist of investment held by non-U.S. based plans in emerging markets, real estate, hedge funds and insurance annuity contracts. These emerging markets, real estate and hedge funds are
categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy to the extent that they are readily redeemable at their NAV, otherwise they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The insurance annuity contracts are valued based on the premium
reserve of the insurer for a guarantee that the insurer has given to the employee benefit fund that approximates fair value. The insurance annuity contracts are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
  The following table presents the fair value of the net pension plan assets at
December 31, 2011. Certain investments in U.S. agency securities, valued at approximately $245 million, were reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 during 2011 as transactions in these securities did not occur with sufficient frequency and volume
to constitute an active market.   




















 
 
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
 
SignificantObservable Inputs(Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets:
 



 



 



 




 Investments:
 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents(1)
 
$
11
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
11
  

 U.S. government and agency securities:
 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,295
  

 U.S. agency securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
245
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. government and agency securities
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,540
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
 
 
16
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64
  

 Corporate and other debt:
 



 



 



 




 State and municipal securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  

 Corporate bonds
 
 
—  
  
 
 
142
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
142
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
—  
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
88
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
 
 
—  
  
 
 
232
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
232
  

 Corporate equities
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6
  

 Derivative and other contracts(2)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
230
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
230
  

 Derivative-related cash collateral
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  

 Commingled trust funds(3)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,339
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,339
  

 Foreign funds(4)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
273
  

 Other investments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
39
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
 
 
1,328
  
 
 
2,381
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
3,735
  

 Receivables:
 



 



 



 




 Other receivables(1)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total receivables
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
1,328
  
 
$
2,395
  
 
$
26
  
 
$
3,749
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities:
 



 



 



 




 Derivative and other contracts(5)
 
$
—  
  
 
$
130
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
130
  

 Other liabilities(1)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
145
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
145
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net pension assets
 
$
1,328
  
 
$
2,250
  
 
$
26
  
 
$
3,604
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  240
 




Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
 


(1)
Cash and cash equivalents, other receivables and other liabilities are valued at cost, which approximates fair value. 


(2)
Derivative contracts in an asset position include investments in interest rate swaps of $230 million. 


(3)
Commingled trust funds include investments in cash funds and fixed income funds of $39 million and $1,300 million, respectively. 


(4)
Foreign funds include investments in equity funds, bond funds, targeted cash flow funds and diversified funds of $17 million, $124 million, $131 million and $1 million,
respectively. 


(5)
Derivative and other contracts in a liability position include investments in inflation swaps and interest rate swaps of $9 million and $121 million, respectively.
   The following table presents the fair value of the
net pension plan assets at December 31, 2010. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2010.   




















 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantObservable Inputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets:
  



  



  



  




 Investments:
  



  



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents(1)
  
$
10
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
10
  

 U.S. government and agency securities:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities
  
 
822
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
822
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
367
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
395
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total U.S. government and agency securities
  
 
1,189
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,217
  

 Other sovereign government obligations
  
 
27
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
34
  

 Corporate and other debt:
  



  



  



  




 State and municipal securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
—  
  
  
 
392
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
392
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
  
 
—  
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
13
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total corporate and other debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
421
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
421
  

 Corporate equities
  
 
6
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6
  

 Derivative and other contracts(2)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
71
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
71
  

 Derivative-related cash collateral
  
 
—  
  
  
 
98
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
98
  

 Commingled trust funds(3)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
677
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
677
  

 Foreign funds(4)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
206
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
206
  

 Other investments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
48
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
 
1,232
  
  
 
1,533
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
2,788
  

 Receivables:
  



  



  



  




 Securities purchased under agreements to resell(1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
68
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
68
  

 Other receivables(1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total receivables
  
 
—  
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
80
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
1,232
  
  
$
1,613
  
  
$
23
  
  
$
2,868
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities:
  



  



  



  




 Derivative and other contracts(5)
  
$
1
  
  
$
156
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
157
  

 Other liabilities(1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
69
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
69
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
1
  
  
 
225
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
226
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net pension assets
  
$
1,231
  
  
$
1,388
  
  
$
23
  
  
$
2,642
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 









 
241
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
 


(1)
Cash and cash equivalents, securities purchased under agreements to resell, other receivables and other liabilities are valued at cost, which approximates fair value.



(2)
Derivative and other contracts in an asset position include investments in interest rate swaps of $71 million. 


(3)
Commingled trust funds include investments in cash funds and fixed income funds of $58 million and $619 million, respectively. 


(4)
Foreign funds include investments in equity funds, bond funds and targeted cash flow funds of $19 million, $92 million and $95 million, respectively.



(5)
Derivative and other contracts in a liability position include investments in listed derivatives and interest rate swaps of $1 million and $156 million, respectively.
   The following table presents changes in Level 3
pension assets and liabilities measured at fair value for 2011:   




























 
 
BeginningBalance atJanuary 1,2011
 
 
ActualReturn onPlan AssetsRelated toAssets StillHeld
atDecember 31,2011
 
 
ActualReturnon PlanAssets Relatedto Assets Soldduring 2011
 
 
Purchases,Sales,OtherSettlementsandIssuances,net
 
 
Net TransfersIn and/or (Out)of Level 3
 
 
EndingBalanceat December 31,2011
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Investments
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Other investments
 
$
23
  
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
26
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
 
$
23
  
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
26
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The following table presents changes in Level
3 pension assets and liabilities measured at fair value for 2010:   




























 
 
BeginningBalance atJanuary 1,2010
 
 
ActualReturn onPlan AssetsRelated toAssets StillHeld
atDecember 31,2010
 
 
ActualReturnon PlanAssets Relatedto Assets Soldduring 2010
 
 
Purchases,Sales,OtherSettlementsandIssuances,net
 
 
Net TransfersIn and/or (Out)of Level 3
 
 
EndingBalanceat December 31,2010
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Investments
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commingled trust funds
 
$
12
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(12
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Other investments
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
 
$
14
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
9
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
23
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Cash Flows. 
  At December 31, 2011, the Company expects to contribute approximately
$50 million to its pension and postretirement benefit plans in 2012 based upon the plans’ current funded status and expected asset return assumptions for 2012, as applicable. 
  Expected benefit payments associated with the Company’s pension and
postretirement benefit plans for the next five years and in aggregate for the five years thereafter at December 31, 2011 are as follows:   












 
  
Pension
 
  
Postretirement
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 2012
  
$
127
  
  
$
7
  

 2013
  
 
127
  
  
 
7
  

 2014
  
 
129
  
  
 
7
  

 2015
  
 
129
  
  
 
8
  

 2016
  
 
131
  
  
 
8
  

 2017-2021
  
 
726
  
  
 
46
  

 











 
242
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan, Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan and Profit Sharing
Awards.    U.S. benefits-eligible employees meeting certain eligibility requirements may participate in the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan or the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan. Eligible U.S.
employees receive 401(k) matching contributions that are invested in the Morgan Stanley Stock Fund.    Effective January 1, 2011, the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan was amended to conform with the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan to provide a $1 for $1 Company match up to 4% of eligible pay up to the
IRS limit ($245,000 in 2011). In addition, the fixed contribution was amended to apply to eligible employees in both the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan and Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan with eligible pay less than or equal to $100,000 who are not
Financial Advisors or Senior Advisors. The fixed contribution is equal to 2% of eligible pay. Also effective January 1, 2011, an MS Transition Contribution was added for participants who received a 2010 accrual in the U.S. Qualified Plan or a
2010 retirement contribution in the 401(k) Plan and who met certain age and service requirements as of December 31, 2010. On September 30, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with the investment manager for the SVP, a fund within
the Company’s 401(k) plan, and certain other third parties (see Note 13 for further information). Under the agreement, the Company contributed $20 million to the SVP on October 15, 2009 and recorded the contribution in the Company’s
401(k) expense.    Effective July 1, 2009, the Company
introduced the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan for legacy Smith Barney U.S. employees who were contributed to MSSB and certain other groups. In 2010, legacy Smith Barney U.S. employees with eligible pay less than or equal to $100,000 received a
fixed contribution under the 401(k) Savings Plan. The amount of fixed contribution was included in the Company’s 401(k) expense and equaled between 1% and 2% of eligible pay based on years of service at December 31. Additionally, certain
eligible legacy Smith Barney employees were granted a transition contribution and, for their year of transfer, a one-time make-up Company match based on certain transition percentages of eligible pay and a comparison of the Company match under the
Citi 401(k) Plan and Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan. The retirement contribution granted in lieu of a defined benefit pension plan and the fixed contribution, transition contribution and make-up Company match granted to legacy Smith Barney
employees are included in the Company’s 401(k) expense. Effective May 1, 2011, the Saxon 401(k) Plan was merged with the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan. 
  The Company also provides discretionary profit sharing to certain non-U.S.
employees. The pre-tax expense associated with the 401(k) plans and profit sharing for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $257 million, $196 million and $181 million, respectively. 
  Defined Contribution Pension Plans.    The
Company maintains separate defined contribution pension plans that cover substantially all employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under such plans, benefits are determined based on a fixed rate of base salary with certain vesting requirements.
In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s expense related to these plans was $136 million, $117 million and $99 million, respectively.   
Other Postemployment Benefits.    Postemployment benefits may include, but are not limited to, salary continuation,
severance benefits, disability-related benefits, and continuation of health care and life insurance coverage provided to former employees or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. The postemployment benefit obligations were not
material at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
 









 
243
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
22.    Income Taxes. 
  The provision for (benefit from) income taxes from continuing operations
consisted of:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 U.S. federal
  
$
35
  
 
$
212
  
 
$
160
  

 U.S. state and local
  
 
276
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
45
  

 Non-U.S.
  
 
568
  
 
 
850
  
 
 
340
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
879
  
 
$
1,224
  
 
$
545
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 U.S. federal
  
$
511
  
 
$
(854
) 
 
$
(399
) 

 U.S. state and local
  
 
(49
) 
 
 
346
  
 
 
(373
) 

 Non-U.S.
  
 
77
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
(70
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
539
  
 
$
(470
) 
 
$
(842
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes from continuing operations
  
$
1,418
  
 
$
754
  
 
$
(297
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes from discontinuing operations
  
$
(124
) 
 
$
352
  
 
$
(93
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The following table reconciles the provision
for (benefit from) income taxes to the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 U.S. federal statutory income tax rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 U.S. state and local income taxes, net of U.S. federal income tax benefits
  
 
2.6
  
 
 
6.2
  
 
 
(18.8
) 

 Non-U.S. earnings
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
(19.7
) 
 
 
(23.1
) 

 Domestic tax credits
  
 
(3.8
) 
 
 
(3.7
) 
 
 
(17.1
) 

 Tax exempt income
  
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
(5.2
) 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(7.3
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
(3.1
) 
 
 
(3.9
) 
 
 
3.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective income tax rate(1)
  
 
23.2
% 
 
 
12.1
% 
 
 
(26.2
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Results for 2011 included discrete tax benefits of $447 million from the remeasurement of a deferred tax asset and the reversal of a related valuation allowance, $137
million related to the reversal of U.S. deferred tax liabilities associated with prior-years’ undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were determined to be indefinitely reinvested abroad, and a discrete tax cost of $100
million related to the remeasurement of Japan deferred tax assets as a result of a decrease in the local statutory income tax rates starting in 2012. Excluding the discrete tax benefits noted above, the effective tax rate from continuing operations
in 2011 would have been 31.1%. For additional discussion related to the disposition of Revel, see below. Results for 2010 included discrete tax benefits of $382 million related to the reversal of U.S. deferred tax liabilities associated with
prior-years’ undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were determined to be indefinitely reinvested abroad, $345 million associated with the remeasurement of net unrecognized tax benefits and related interest based on new
information regarding the status of federal and state examinations, and $277 million associated with the planned repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. Excluding the discrete tax benefits noted above, the
effective tax rate from continuing operations in 2010 would have been 28.1%. Results for 2009 included a discrete tax benefit of $331 million resulting from the cost of anticipated repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at lower than previously estimated
tax rates. Excluding this discrete tax benefit, the annual effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2009 would have been 3.1%.
 











 
244
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The Company’s effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2011 included a $447 million net
tax benefit from the remeasurement of a deferred tax asset and the reversal of a related valuation allowance. The deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were recognized in income from discontinued operations in 2010 in connection with the
recognition of a $1.2 billion loss due to writedowns and related costs following the Company’s commitment to a plan to dispose of Revel. The Company recorded the valuation allowance because the Company did not believe it was more likely than
not that it would have sufficient future net capital gain to realize the benefit of the expected capital loss to be recognized upon the disposal of Revel. During the quarter ended March 31, 2011, the disposal of Revel was restructured as a
tax-free like kind exchange, and the disposal was completed. The restructured transaction changed the character of the future taxable loss to ordinary. The Company reversed the valuation allowance because the Company believes it is more likely than
not that it will have sufficient future ordinary taxable income to recognize the recorded deferred tax asset. In accordance with the applicable accounting literature, this reversal of a previously established valuation allowance due to a change in
circumstances was recognized in income from continuing operations during the quarter ended March 31, 2011.    At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $6,461 million of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries for which no U.S. provisions have been recorded for income tax that could occur
upon repatriation. Except to the extent such earnings can be repatriated tax efficiently, they are permanently invested abroad. Accordingly, at December 31, 2011 approximately $670 million of deferred tax liability was not recorded with respect
to these earnings.    Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax
effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. Significant
components of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were as follows:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



  




 Tax credits and loss carryforwards
  
$
6,254
  
  
$
6,219
  

 Employee compensation and benefit plans
  
 
2,455
  
  
 
2,887
  

 Valuation and liability allowances
  
 
428
  
  
 
331
  

 Valuation of inventory, investments and receivables
  
 
—  
  
  
 
205
  

 Deferred expenses
  
 
65
  
  
 
54
  

 Other
  
 
—  
  
  
 
316
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
9,202
  
  
 
10,012
  

 Valuation allowance(1)
  
 
60
  
  
 
655
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets after valuation allowance
  
$
9,142
  
  
$
9,357
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



  




 Non-U.S. operations
  
$
1,343
  
  
$
1,349
  

 Fixed assets
  
 
97
  
  
 
180
  

 Prepaid commissions
  
 
—  
  
  
 
16
  

 Valuation of inventory, investments and receivables
  
 
569
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
222
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
$
2,231
  
  
$
1,545
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
6,911
  
  
$
7,812
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The valuation allowance reduces the benefit of certain separate Company federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards and book writedowns to the amount
that will more likely than not be realized. 
 









 
245
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
During 2011, the valuation allowance was decreased by $595 million related to the ability to utilize
certain federal, state and foreign net operating losses. The decrease in valuation allowance mainly pertained to the disposition of Revel discussed above.  
The Company had tax credit carryforwards for which a related deferred tax asset of $5,556 million and $5,267 million was recorded at December 31,
2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to expire in 2016, with a significant amount scheduled to expire in 2020, if not utilized. 
  The Company had net operating loss carryforwards in Japan for which a related
deferred tax asset of $435 million and $742 million was recorded at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2019. 
  The Company believes the recognized net deferred tax asset of $6,911 million
(after valuation allowance) is more likely than not to be realized based on expectations as to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which it operates.   
The Company recorded net income tax provision (benefit) to Paid-in capital related to employee stock compensation transactions of $76 million, $322
million, and $(33) million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.   
Cash paid for income taxes was $892 million, $1,091 million, and $1,028 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
  The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S. components of income from
continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) and extraordinary gain for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 U.S.
  
$
3,255
  
  
$
3,584
  
  
$
(1,299
) 

 Non-U.S.(1)
  
 
2,859
  
  
 
2,647
  
  
 
2,429
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
6,114
  
  
$
6,231
  
  
$
1,130
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Non-U.S. income is defined as income generated from operations located outside the U.S.    The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was approximately $4.0 billion, $3.7 billion, and $4.1 billion at
December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, respectively. Of this total, approximately $1.8 billion, $1.7 billion, and $2.1 billion, respectively (net of federal benefit of state issues, competent authority and
foreign tax credit offsets), represent the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate in future periods. 
  In accordance with the guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income
taxes, penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits may be classified as either income taxes or another expense classification. During 2010, the Company changed the classification of penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits and began
recording them in Provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of income. The Company previously recorded such penalties in Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes as part of Other expenses. The Company believes the
change in classification of penalties is preferable because such penalties are directly dependent on and correlated to related income tax positions.   
Additionally, the Company views penalties and interest on uncertain tax positions as part of the cost of managing the Company’s overall tax exposure,
and the change in presentation aligns the classification of penalties related 
 











 
246
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

to unrecognized tax benefits with the classification of interest on unrecognized tax benefits already classified as part of Provision for income taxes. Penalties related to unrecognized tax
benefits during 2010 and prior periods were not material. Accordingly, the Company did not retrospectively adjust prior periods. The change in classification did not impact Net income or Earnings per share, and the impact on Income (loss) from
continuing operations before income taxes was not material.    The
Company recognizes the accrual of interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in Provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of income. The Company recognized $56 million, $(93) million, and $53 million of interest expense (benefit)
(net of federal and state income tax benefits) in the consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, respectively. Interest expense accrued at December 31,
2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009 was approximately $330 million, $274 million, and $367 million, respectively, net of federal and state income tax benefits. Penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits for the year
ended December 31, 2011 were immaterial.    The following table
presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions):   








 Unrecognized Tax Benefits
  
 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
$
3,466
  

 Increase based on tax positions related to the current period
  
 
688
  

 Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods
  
 
33
  

 Decreases based on tax positions related to prior periods
  
 
(74
) 

 Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
—  
  

 Decreases related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations
  
 
(61
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
4,052
  


  
  
  
 

 Increase based on tax positions related to the current period
  
 
478
  

 Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods
  
 
479
  

 Decreases based on tax positions related to prior periods
  
 
(881
) 

 Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
(356
) 

 Decreases related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations
  
 
(61
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
3,711
  


  
  
  
 

 Increase based on tax positions related to the current period
  
 
412
  

 Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods
  
 
70
  

 Decreases based on tax positions related to prior periods
  
 
(79
) 

 Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
(56
) 

 Decreases related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations
  
 
(13
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
4,045
  


  
  
  
 
   The Company is under continuous examination
by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and other tax authorities in certain countries, such as Japan and the U.K., and states in which the Company has significant business operations, such as New York. The Company is currently under
examination by the IRS Appeals Office for the remaining issues covering tax years 1999 – 2005. Also, the Company is currently at various levels of field examination with respect to audits with the IRS, as well as New York State and New York
City, for tax years 2006 – 2008 and 2007 – 2009, respectively. During 2011, the Company reached a conclusion with the U.K. tax authorities on substantially all issues through tax year 2007. The impact of the settlement to the financial
statements was immaterial. During 2012, the Company expects to reach a conclusion with U.K. tax authorities on 
 









 
247
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

substantially all issues through tax year 2009. Also during 2012, the Company expects to reach a conclusion with the Japanese tax authorities on substantially all issues covering tax years 2007
– 2008 and commence an audit covering tax years 2009 – 2010.    The Company believes that the resolution of tax matters will not have a material effect on the consolidated statements of financial condition of the Company, although a resolution could have a material
impact on the Company’s consolidated statements of income for a particular future period and on the Company’s effective income tax rate for any period in which such resolution occurs. The Company has established a liability for
unrecognized tax benefits that the Company believes is adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, the Company adjusts unrecognized tax benefits only when more information is available or when an event occurs
necessitating a change.    The Company periodically evaluates the
likelihood of assessments in each taxing jurisdiction resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations. As part of the Company’s periodic review of unrecognized tax benefits, and based on new information regarding the status of
federal and state examinations, the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits were remeasured. As a result of this remeasurement, the income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a benefit of $345 million. 
  It is reasonably possible that significant changes in the gross balance of
unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months. At this time, however, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the expected change to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and impact on the effective tax rate over the next
12 months.    The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which
the Company and its affiliates operate and the earliest tax year subject to examination:   








 Jurisdiction
  
Tax Year
 

 United States
  
 
1999
  

 New York State and City
  
 
2007
  

 Hong Kong
  
 
2005
  

 Japan
  
 
2007
  

 United Kingdom
  
 
2008
  
   23.    Segment and
Geographic Information.    Segment Information.
   The Company structures its segments primarily based upon
the nature of the financial products and services provided to customers and the Company’s management organization. The Company provides a wide range of financial products and services to its customers in each of its business segments:
Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. For further discussion of the Company’s business segments, see Note 1.   
Revenues and expenses directly associated with each respective segment are included in determining its operating results. Other revenues and expenses that
are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated based upon the Company’s allocation methodologies, generally based on each segment’s respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures. 
  As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions
with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company’s consolidated results. Intersegment eliminations also reflect the effect of fees paid by the
Institutional Securities business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment related to the bank deposit program. 
 











 
248
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Selected financial information for the Company’s segments is presented below: 
 
























 2011
  
InstitutionalSecurities
 
 
Global WealthManagementGroup
 
  
AssetManagement
 
 
IntersegmentEliminations
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Total non-interest revenues(1)
  
$
18,293
  
 
$
11,940
  
  
$
1,928
  
 
$
(115
) 
 
$
32,046
  

 Net interest
  
 
(1,085
) 
 
 
1,483
  
  
 
(41
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
357
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
$
17,208
  
 
$
13,423
  
  
$
1,887
  
 
$
(115
) 
 
$
32,403
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
$
4,585
  
 
$
1,276
  
  
$
253
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
6,114
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
880
  
 
 
465
  
  
 
73
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,418
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
3,705
  
 
 
811
  
  
 
180
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,696
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations(2):
  



 



  



 



 




 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(199
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
24
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(175
) 

 Benefit from income taxes
  
 
(107
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(124
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gain (loss) on discontinued operations
  
 
(92
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
41
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(51
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
3,613
  
 
 
811
  
  
 
221
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,645
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
244
  
 
 
146
  
  
 
145
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
535
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
3,369
  
 
$
665
  
  
$
76
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
4,110
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




























 2010
 
InstitutionalSecurities
 
 
Global WealthManagementGroup
 
 
AssetManagement
 
 
Discover
 
 
IntersegmentEliminations
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Total non-interest revenues(1)
 
$
16,402
  
 
$
11,514
  
 
$
2,761
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(187
) 
 
$
30,490
  

 Net interest
 
 
(233
) 
 
 
1,122
  
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
897
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
 
$
16,169
  
 
$
12,636
  
 
$
2,685
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(103
) 
 
$
31,387
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
 
$
4,372
  
 
$
1,156
  
 
$
718
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(15
) 
 
$
6,231
  

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
 
 
316
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
754
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
 
 
4,056
  
 
 
820
  
 
 
613
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
5,477
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations(2):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(1,210
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
999
  
 
 
775
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
577
  

 Provision for income taxes
 
 
10
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
352
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gain (loss) on discontinued operations(3)
 
 
(1,220
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
664
  
 
 
775
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
225
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
 
2,836
  
 
 
820
  
 
 
1,277
  
 
 
775
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
5,702
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
290
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
408
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
999
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley
 
$
2,546
  
 
$
519
  
 
$
869
  
 
$
775
  
 
$
(6
) 
 
$
4,703
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 









 
249
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
























 2009
  
InstitutionalSecurities
 
 
Global WealthManagementGroup
 
  
AssetManagement
 
 
IntersegmentEliminations
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Total non-interest revenues
  
$
12,848
  
 
$
8,729
  
  
$
1,377
  
 
$
(464
) 
 
$
22,490
  

 Net interest
  
 
(106
) 
 
 
661
  
  
 
(83
) 
 
 
318
  
 
 
790
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
$
12,742
  
 
$
9,390
  
  
$
1,294
  
 
$
(146
) 
 
$
23,280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
  
$
1,239
  
 
$
559
  
  
$
(657
) 
 
$
(11
) 
 
$
1,130
  

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
(256
) 
 
 
178
  
  
 
(216
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(297
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
1,495
  
 
 
381
  
  
 
(441
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
1,427
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations(2):
  



 



  



 



 




 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
246
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(373
) 
 
 
13
  
 
 
(114
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
185
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(277
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(93
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations(3)
  
 
61
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(96
) 
 
 
14
  
 
 
(21
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
1,556
  
 
 
381
  
  
 
(537
) 
 
 
6
  
 
 
1,406
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
12
  
 
 
98
  
  
 
(50
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
60
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley
  
$
1,544
  
 
$
283
  
  
$
(487
) 
 
$
6
  
 
$
1,346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
In the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of approximately $108 million and a pre-tax gain of approximately $176 million,
respectively, in net revenues upon application of the OIS curve within the Institutional Securities business segment (see Note 4). 


(2)
See Notes 1 and 25 for discussion of discontinued operations. 


(3)
Amounts for 2010 included a loss of $1.2 billion related to the disposition of Revel included within the Institutional Securities business segment, a gain of
approximately $570 million related to the Company’s sale of Retail Asset Management within the Asset Management business segment and a gain of $775 million related to the legal settlement with DFS. Amounts for 2009 included net gains of $499
million related to MSCI secondary offerings within the Institutional Securities business segment.   
























 Net Interest
  
InstitutionalSecurities
 
 
Global WealthManagementGroup
 
  
AssetManagement
 
 
IntersegmentEliminations
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 2011
  



 



  



 



 




 Interest income
  
$
5,740
  
 
$
1,869
  
  
$
10
  
 
$
(355
) 
 
$
7,264
  

 Interest expense
  
 
6,825
  
 
 
386
  
  
 
51
  
 
 
(355
) 
 
 
6,907
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
$
(1,085
) 
 
$
1,483
  
  
$
(41
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
357
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 2010
  



 



  



 



 




 Interest income
  
$
5,910
  
 
$
1,587
  
  
$
22
  
 
$
(208
) 
 
$
7,311
  

 Interest expense
  
 
6,143
  
 
 
465
  
  
 
98
  
 
 
(292
) 
 
 
6,414
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
$
(233
) 
 
$
1,122
  
  
$
(76
) 
 
$
84
  
 
$
897
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 2009
  



 



  



 



 




 Interest income
  
$
6,373
  
 
$
1,114
  
  
$
17
  
 
$
(27
) 
 
$
7,477
  

 Interest expense
  
 
6,479
  
 
 
453
  
  
 
100
  
 
 
(345
) 
 
 
6,687
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
$
(106
) 
 
$
661
  
  
$
(83
) 
 
$
318
  
 
$
790
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 











 
250
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 




















 Total Assets(1)
  
InstitutionalSecurities
 
  
Global WealthManagementGroup
 
  
AssetManagement
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 At December 31, 2011
  
$
641,456
  
  
$
101,427
  
  
$
7,015
  
  
$
749,898
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 At December 31, 2010
  
$
698,453
  
  
$
101,058
  
  
$
8,187
  
  
$
807,698
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Corporate assets have been fully allocated to the Company’s business segments. 
  Geographic Information. 
  The Company operates in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The Company’s
non-U.S. business activities are principally conducted through European and Asian locations. The net revenues and total assets disclosed in the following table reflect the regional view of the Company’s consolidated net revenues and total
assets on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:   


 
•
 
 Institutional Securities: advisory and equity underwriting—client location, debt underwriting—revenue recording location, sales and
trading—trading desk location.   


 
•
 
 Global Wealth Management Group: global representative coverage location.   


 
•
 
 Asset Management: client location, except for Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses, which are based on asset location.
  
















 Net Revenues
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Americas
  
$
22,331
  
  
$
21,477
  
  
$
18,798
  

 Europe, Middle East, and Africa
  
 
6,761
  
  
 
5,590
  
  
 
2,486
  

 Asia
  
 
3,311
  
  
 
4,320
  
  
 
1,996
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
$
32,403
  
  
$
31,387
  
  
$
23,280
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-period amounts to conform to the current year’s presentation. 
 
















 Total Assets
  
At December 31,2011
 
  
At December 31,2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Americas
  
$
558,765
  
  
$
582,928
  

 Europe, Middle East, and Africa
  
 
134,190
  
  
 
153,656
  

 Asia
  
 
56,943
  
  
 
71,114
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
749,898
  
  
$
807,698
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   24.    Equity Method
Investments.    The Company has investments accounted for under
the equity method (see Note 1) of $4,524 million and $5,120 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, included in Other investments in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Losses from these
investments were $995 million, $37 million and $49 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are included in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income. In addition, in December 2010, the Company completed the sale of its 34.3%
stake in China International Capital Corporation Limited, for a pre-tax gain of approximately $668 million, which is included in Other revenues in the consolidated statement of income (see Note 19). 
 









 
251
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
The following presents certain equity method investees at December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 
















 
  
 
 
 
Book Value(1)
 

 
  
PercentOwnership
 
 
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 
  
 
 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. 
  
 
40
% 
 
$
1,444
  
  
$
1,794
  

 Lansdowne Partners(2)
  
 
19.8
% 
 
 
276
  
  
 
284
  

 Avenue Capital Group(2)(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
237
  
  
 
275
  
  


(1)
Book value of these investees exceeds the Company’s share of net assets, reflecting intangible assets and equity method goodwill. 


(2)
The Company’s ownership interest represents limited partnership interests. The Company is deemed to have significant influence in these limited partnerships, as
the Company’s limited partnership interests were above the 3% to 5% threshold for interests that should be accounted for under the equity method. 


(3)
The Company’s ownership interest represents limited partnerships interests in a number of different entities within the Avenue Capital Group.
   Japanese Securities Joint Venture.
   On May 1, 2010, the Company and MUFG formed a joint
venture in Japan of their respective investment banking and securities businesses. MUFG and the Company have integrated their respective Japanese securities companies by forming two joint venture companies. MUFG contributed the investment banking,
wholesale and retail securities businesses conducted in Japan by Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co., Ltd. into MUMSS. The Company contributed the investment banking operations conducted in Japan by its subsidiary MSMS, formerly known as Morgan Stanley
Japan Securities Co., Ltd., into MUMSS (MSMS, together with MUMSS, the “Joint Venture”). MSMS will continue its sales and trading and capital markets business conducted in Japan. Following the respective contributions to the Joint Venture
and a cash payment of 23 billion yen ($247 million), from MUFG to the Company, the Company owns a 40% economic interest in the Joint Venture and MUFG owns a 60% economic interest in the Joint Venture. 
  The Company holds a 40% voting interest and MUFG holds a 60% voting interest
in MUMSS, while the Company holds a 51% voting interest and MUFG holds a 49% voting interest in MSMS. The Company continues to consolidate MSMS in its consolidated financial statements and, commencing on May 1, 2010, accounted for its interest
in MUMSS as an equity method investment within the Institutional Securities business segment. During 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded losses of $783 million and $62 million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of
income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.    In
order to enhance the risk management at MUMSS, during 2011, the Company entered into a transaction with MUMSS whereby the risk associated with the fixed income trading positions that previously caused the majority of the aforementioned MUMSS losses
in 2011 was transferred to MSMS. In return for entering into the transaction, the Company received total consideration of $659 million, which represented the estimated fair value of the fixed income trading positions transferred. 
  To the extent that losses incurred by MUMSS result in a requirement to
restore its capital, MUFG is solely responsible for providing this additional capital to a minimum level and the Company is not obligated to contribute additional capital to MUMSS. Because of losses incurred by MUMSS, MUFG contributed approximately
$370 million and $259 million of capital to MUMSS on April 22, 2011 and November 24, 2011, respectively. The MUFG capital injection improved the capital base and restored the capital adequacy ratio of MUMSS in each case. As a result
of the capital injections, during 2011, the Company recorded increases of approximately $251 million in the carrying amount of the equity method investment in MUMSS, reflecting the 
 











 
252
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

Company’s 40% share of the increases in the net asset value of MUMSS, and increases in the Company’s Paid-in capital of approximately $146 million (after-tax). 
  To the extent that MUMSS is required to increase its capital level due to
factors other than losses, such as changes in regulatory requirements, both MUFG and the Company are required to contribute the necessary capital based upon their economic interest as set forth above. In this context, the Company contributed $129
million and MUFG contributed $195 million of additional proportionate capital investments on November 24, 2011 to meet an anticipated change in regulatory capital requirements of MUMSS.    At December 31, 2011, the Company performed an impairment review of its equity method investment in MUMSS in view of the
deterioration in the financial performance of MUMSS and the aftermath of the earthquake in Japan on March 11, 2011. The Company recorded no other-than-temporary impairment loss in 2011. Adverse market or economic events, as well as further
deterioration of economic performance, could result in impairment charges of this investment in future periods.    The following presents summarized financial data for MUMSS:   












 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Total assets
  
$
158,363
  
  
$
217,585
  

 Total liabilities
  
 
155,555
  
  
 
213,735
  

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
22
  
  
 
131
  
  
















 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009(1)
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Net revenues
  
$
735
  
 
$
1,073
  
 
 
N/A
  

 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
(1,746
) 
 
 
(253
) 
 
 
N/A
  

 Net loss
  
 
(1,976
) 
 
 
(156
) 
 
 
N/A
  

 Net loss applicable to MUMSS
  
 
(1,976
) 
 
 
(144
) 
 
 
N/A
  
  


N/A—Not
Applicable. 


(1)
The Company accounted for MUMSS as an equity method investment beginning May 1, 2010.    FrontPoint.   
On March 1, 2011, the Company and the principals of FrontPoint completed a transaction whereby FrontPoint senior management and portfolio managers
own a majority equity stake in FrontPoint and the Company retained a minority stake. FrontPoint has replaced the Company’s affiliates as the investment advisor and general partner of the FrontPoint funds. The investment in FrontPoint is
recorded within the Asset Management business segment. Prior to March 1, 2011, the Company consolidated FrontPoint. In 2011, the Company recorded losses of approximately $27 million related to the writedown of the minority stake investment in
FrontPoint and approximately $3 million of impairment losses related to investment management contracts associated with FrontPoint. The losses were included in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income. 
  Huaxin Securities Joint Venture. 
  In June 2011, the Company and Huaxin Securities Co., Ltd.
(“Huaxin Securities”) (also known as China Fortune Securities Co., Ltd.) jointly announced the operational commencement of their securities joint venture in China. 
 









 
253
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 

During 2011, the Company recorded initial costs of $130 million related to the formation of this new Chinese securities joint venture in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income.
The joint venture, Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited, is registered and principally located in Shanghai. Huaxin Securities holds a two-thirds interest in the joint venture while the Company owns a one-third interest. The
establishment of the joint venture allows the Company to further build on its established onshore businesses in China. The joint venture’s business includes underwriting and sponsorship of shares in the domestic China market
(including A shares and foreign investment shares), as well as underwriting, sponsorship and principal trading of bonds (including government and corporate bonds). 
  Other. 
  Lansdowne Partners is a London-based investment manager. Avenue Capital
Group is a New York-based investment manager. The investments are accounted for within the Asset Management business segment.   
The Company also invests in certain structured transactions and other investments not integral to the operations of the Company accounted for under the
equity method of accounting amounting to $2.5 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
25.    Discontinued Operations.   
See Note 1 for a discussion of the Company’s discontinued operations. 
  The table below provides information regarding amounts included in
discontinued operations:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Net revenues(1):
  



 



 




 Revel
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(6
) 

 Crescent
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
161
  

 Retail Asset Management
  
 
11
  
 
 
1,221
  
 
 
628
  

 MSCI
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
651
  

 CMB
  
 
3
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
(71
) 

 Saxon
  
 
28
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
112
  

 Other
  
 
24
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
48
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
66
  
 
$
1,519
  
 
$
1,523
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Pre-tax gain (loss) on discontinued operations(1):
  



 



 




 Revel(2)
  
$
(10
) 
 
$
(1,208
) 
 
$
(15
) 

 Crescent(3)
  
 
15
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(613
) 

 Retail Asset Management(4)
  
 
14
  
 
 
994
  
 
 
268
  

 MSCI(5)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
537
  

 DFS(6)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
775
  
 
 
—  
  

 CMB
  
 
4
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
(87
) 

 Saxon(7)
  
 
(194
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
(151
) 

 Other
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
8
  
 
 
(53
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
(175
) 
 
$
577
  
 
$
(114
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Amounts included eliminations of intersegment activity. 


(2)
Amount included a loss of approximately $1.2 billion in 2010 in connection with the disposition of Revel. 


(3)
Amount included a gain on disposition of approximately $126 million in 2009. 


(4)
Amount included a pre-tax gain of approximately $853 million in 2010 in connection with the sale of Retail Asset Management. 


(5)
Amount included a pre-tax gain on MSCI secondary offerings of $499 million in 2009. 


(6)
Amount relates to the legal settlement with DFS in 2010. 


(7)
Amount included a loss of approximately $98 million in 2011 in connection with the planned disposition of Saxon. 
 











 
254
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
26.    Parent Company. 
  Parent Company Only 
Condensed Statements of Financial Condition  (dollars in millions, except share data)   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Assets:
  



 




 Cash and due from banks
  
$
11,935
  
 
$
5,672
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks
  
 
3,385
  
 
 
3,718
  

 Financial instruments owned
  
 
12,747
  
 
 
13,374
  

 Securities purchased under agreement to resell with affiliate
  
 
50,356
  
 
 
49,631
  

 Advances to subsidiaries:
  



 




 Bank and bank holding company
  
 
18,325
  
 
 
18,371
  

 Non-bank
  
 
129,751
  
 
 
141,659
  

 Investment in subsidiaries, at equity:
  



 




 Bank and bank holding company
  
 
19,899
  
 
 
6,129
  

 Non-bank
  
 
26,201
  
 
 
43,607
  

 Other assets
  
 
6,845
  
 
 
7,568
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
279,444
  
 
$
289,729
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity:
  



 




 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings
  
$
1,100
  
 
$
1,353
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased
  
 
1,861
  
 
 
1,614
  

 Payables to subsidiaries
  
 
35,159
  
 
 
42,816
  

 Other liabilities and accrued expenses
  
 
4,123
  
 
 
2,819
  

 Long-term borrowings
  
 
175,152
  
 
 
183,916
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
217,395
  
 
 
232,518
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingent liabilities
  



 




 Shareholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock
  
 
1,508
  
 
 
9,597
  

 Common stock, $0.01 par value;
  



 




 Shares authorized: 3,500,000,000 in 2011 and 2010;
  



 




 Shares issued: 1,989,377,171 in 2011 and 1,603,913,074 in 2010;
  



 




 Shares outstanding: 1,926,986,130 in 2011 and 1,512,022,095 in 2010
  
 
20
  
 
 
16
  

 Paid-in capital
  
 
22,836
  
 
 
13,521
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
40,341
  
 
 
38,603
  

 Employee stock trust
  
 
3,166
  
 
 
3,465
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(157
) 
 
 
(467
) 

 Common stock held in treasury, at cost, $0.01 par value; 62,391,041 shares in 2011 and 91,890,979 shares in 2010
  
 
(2,499
) 
 
 
(4,059
) 

 Common stock issued to employee trust
  
 
(3,166
) 
 
 
(3,465
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
62,049
  
 
 
57,211
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
279,444
  
 
$
289,729
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 









 
255
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Parent Company Only 
Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income  (dollars in millions)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 




 Dividends from non-bank subsidiary
  
$
7,153
  
 
$
2,537
  
 
$
6,117
  

 Undistributed gain (loss) of subsidiaries
  
 
(3,280
) 
 
 
5,708
  
 
 
(307
) 

 Principal transactions
  
 
4,772
  
 
 
628
  
 
 
(5,592
) 

 Other
  
 
(241
) 
 
 
(307
) 
 
 
412
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest revenues
  
 
8,404
  
 
 
8,566
  
 
 
630
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest income
  
 
3,251
  
 
 
3,305
  
 
 
4,432
  

 Interest expense
  
 
5,600
  
 
 
5,351
  
 
 
6,153
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest
  
 
(2,349
) 
 
 
(2,046
) 
 
 
(1,721
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
  
 
6,055
  
 
 
6,520
  
 
 
(1,091
) 

 Non-interest expenses:
  



 



 




 Non-interest expenses
  
 
120
  
 
 
230
  
 
 
346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income tax provision (benefit)
  
 
5,935
  
 
 
6,290
  
 
 
(1,437
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
1,825
  
 
 
1,587
  
 
 
(2,783
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
4,110
  
 
 
4,703
  
 
 
1,346
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
  



 



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
(35
) 
 
 
66
  
 
 
116
  

 Amortization of cash flow hedges
  
 
7
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
13
  

 Net unrealized gain on Securities available for sale
  
 
87
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
—  
  

 Pension, postretirement and other related adjustments
  
 
251
  
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
(269
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  
$
4,420
  
 
$
4,796
  
 
$
1,206
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
4,110
  
 
$
4,703
  
 
$
1,346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders
  
$
2,067
  
 
$
3,594
  
 
$
(907
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 











 
256
 



Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Parent Company Only 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows  (dollars in millions)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
4,110
  
 
$
4,703
  
 
$
1,346
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities:
  



 



 




 Compensation payable in common stock and stock options
  
 
1,300
  
 
 
1,260
  
 
 
1,265
  

 Undistributed (gain) loss of subsidiaries
  
 
3,280
  
 
 
(5,708
) 
 
 
307
  

 Gain on business dispositions
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(606
) 

 (Gain) loss on retirement of long-term debt
  
 
(155
) 
 
 
27
  
 
 
(491
) 

 Change in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Financial instruments owned, net of financial instruments sold, not yet purchased
  
 
103
  
 
 
(11,848
) 
 
 
5,505
  

 Other assets
  
 
960
  
 
 
929
  
 
 
(5,036
) 

 Other liabilities and accrued expenses
  
 
(4,242
) 
 
 
15,072
  
 
 
(10,134
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
  
 
5,356
  
 
 
4,435
  
 
 
(7,844
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Advances to and investments in subsidiaries
  
 
10,290
  
 
 
(9,552
) 
 
 
13,375
  

 Securities purchased under agreement to resell with affiliate
  
 
(726
) 
 
 
(1,545
) 
 
 
(29,255
) 

 Business dispositions, net of cash disposed
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
565
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
  
 
9,564
  
 
 
(11,097
) 
 
 
(15,315
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Net proceeds from (payments for) short-term borrowings
  
 
(253
) 
 
 
202
  
 
 
(5,743
) 

 Excess tax benefits associated with stock-based awards
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
102
  

 Net proceeds from:
  



 



 




 Public offerings and other issuances of common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5,581
  
 
 
6,255
  

 Issuance of long-term borrowings
  
 
28,106
  
 
 
26,683
  
 
 
30,112
  

 Payments for:
  



 



 




 Series D Preferred Stock and Warrant
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,950
) 

 Redemption of junior subordinated debentures related to China Investment Corporation Ltd.
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,579
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchases of common stock for employee tax withholding
  
 
(317
) 
 
 
(317
) 
 
 
(50
) 

 Long-term borrowings
  
 
(35,805
) 
 
 
(25,349
) 
 
 
(23,824
) 

 Cash dividends
  
 
(834
) 
 
 
(1,156
) 
 
 
(1,732
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
(9,103
) 
 
 
70
  
 
 
(5,830
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
113
  
 
 
(817
) 
 
 
549
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
5,930
  
 
 
(7,409
) 
 
 
(28,440
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of period
  
 
9,390
  
 
 
16,799
  
 
 
45,239
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, at end of period
  
$
15,320
  
 
$
9,390
  
 
$
16,799
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents include:
  



 



 




 Cash and due from banks
  
$
11,935
  
 
$
5,672
  
 
$
13,262
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks
  
 
3,385
  
 
 
3,718
  
 
 
3,537
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, at end of period
  
$
15,320
  
 
$
9,390
  
 
$
16,799
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow
Information.    Cash payments for interest were $4,617 million,
$4,801 million and $6,758 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    Cash payments for income taxes were $57 million, $556 million and $325 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 









 
257
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
Transactions with Subsidiaries.    The Parent Company has transactions with its consolidated subsidiaries determined on an agreed-upon basis and has guaranteed
certain unsecured lines of credit and contractual obligations of certain of its consolidated subsidiaries. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current year’s presentation. 
  Guarantees.    In the normal course of its business, the Parent Company guarantees certain of its subsidiaries’ obligations under
derivative and other financial arrangements. The Parent Company records Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, which include derivative contracts, at fair value on its condensed statements of financial
condition.    The Parent Company also, in the normal course of its
business, provides standard indemnities to counterparties on behalf of its subsidiaries for taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions and
certain annuity products. These indemnity payments could be required based on a change in the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Parent Company to terminate the
agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Parent Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Parent Company has not recorded any contingent
liability in the condensed financial statements for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.    The Parent Company has issued guarantees on behalf of its subsidiaries to various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and
clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or futures contracts. Under these guarantee arrangements, the Parent Company may be required to pay the financial obligations of its subsidiaries related to business transacted on or with the
exchanges and clearinghouses in the event of a subsidiary’s default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. The Parent Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the condensed financial statements for these
arrangements and believes that any potential requirements to make payments under these arrangements is remote.    The Parent Company guarantees certain debt instruments and warrants issued by subsidiaries. The debt instruments and warrants totaled $6.9 billion and $8.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively. In connection with subsidiary lease obligations, the Parent Company has issued guarantees to various lessors. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Parent Company had $1.4 billion and $1.5
billion of guarantees outstanding, respectively, under subsidiary lease obligations, primarily in the U.K.    At December 31, 2010, the Parent Company had $125 million in guarantees related to Crescent.
  258
 




Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
27.    Quarterly Results (unaudited). 
 




































 
 
2011 Quarter
 
 
2010 Quarter
 

 
 
First
 
 
Second
 
 
Third
 
 
Fourth
 
 
First
 
 
Second
 
 
Third
 
 
Fourth
 

 
 
(dollars in millions, except per share data)
 

 Total non-interest revenues
 
$
7,600
  
 
$
9,308
  
 
$
9,699
  
 
$
5,439
  
 
$
8,608
  
 
$
7,776
  
 
$
6,622
  
 
$
7,484
  

 Net interest
 
 
7
  
 
 
(66
) 
 
 
146
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
378
  
 
 
149
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
259
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net revenues
 
 
7,607
  
 
 
9,242
  
 
 
9,845
  
 
 
5,709
  
 
 
8,986
  
 
 
7,925
  
 
 
6,733
  
 
 
7,743
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest expenses
 
 
6,703
  
 
 
7,266
  
 
 
6,154
  
 
 
6,166
  
 
 
6,493
  
 
 
6,200
  
 
 
5,911
  
 
 
6,552
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
 
 
904
  
 
 
1,976
  
 
 
3,691
  
 
 
(457
) 
 
 
2,493
  
 
 
1,725
  
 
 
822
  
 
 
1,191
  

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
 
 
(244
) 
 
 
542
  
 
 
1,416
  
 
 
(296
) 
 
 
426
  
 
 
250
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
90
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
1,148
  
 
 
1,434
  
 
 
2,275
  
 
 
(161
) 
 
 
2,067
  
 
 
1,475
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
1,101
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations(1):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(104
) 
 
 
(77
) 
 
 
843
  
 
 
(168
) 
 
 
(22
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(81
) 
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
334
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
13
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
18
  
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
(56
) 
 
 
509
  
 
 
(193
) 
 
 
(35
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
 
1,130
  
 
 
1,406
  
 
 
2,293
  
 
 
(184
) 
 
 
2,011
  
 
 
1,984
  
 
 
641
  
 
 
1,066
  

 Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
162
  
 
 
213
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
235
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
510
  
 
 
230
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley
 
$
968
  
 
$
1,193
  
 
$
2,199
  
 
$
(250
) 
 
$
1,776
  
 
$
1,960
  
 
$
131
  
 
$
836
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders
 
$
736
  
 
$
(558
) 
 
$
2,153
  
 
$
(275
) 
 
$
1,412
  
 
$
1,578
  
 
$
(91
) 
 
$
600
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share(2):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
0.52
  
 
$
(0.36
) 
 
$
1.15
  
 
$
(0.14
) 
 
$
1.11
  
 
$
0.85
  
 
$
0.07
  
 
$
0.44
  

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
0.01
  
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.35
  
 
 
(0.14
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per basic common share
 
$
0.51
  
 
$
(0.38
) 
 
$
1.16
  
 
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
1.07
  
 
$
1.20
  
 
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
0.42
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share(2):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
0.51
  
 
$
(0.36
) 
 
$
1.14
  
 
$
(0.14
) 
 
$
1.02
  
 
$
0.81
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
0.44
  

 Net gain (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
0.01
  
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
0.28
  
 
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.03
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per diluted common share
 
$
0.50
  
 
$
(0.38
) 
 
$
1.15
  
 
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
0.99
  
 
$
1.09
  
 
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
0.41
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared to common shareholders
 
$
0.05
  
 
$
0.05
  
 
$
0.05
  
 
$
0.05
  
 
$
0.05
  
 
$
0.05
  
 
$
0.05
  
 
$
0.05
  

 Book value
 
$
31.45
  
 
$
30.17
  
 
$
31.29
  
 
$
31.42
  
 
$
27.65
  
 
$
29.65
  
 
$
31.25
  
 
$
31.49
  
  


(1)
See Notes 1 and 25 for more information on discontinued operations. 


(2)
Summation of the quarters’ earnings per common share may not equal the annual amounts due to the averaging effect of the number of shares and share equivalents
throughout the year. 
 









 
259
 





Table of Contents
MORGAN STANLEY    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued) 
 
28.    Subsequent Events. 
  Common Dividend. 
  On January 19, 2012, the Company announced that its Board of Directors
declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.05. The dividend is payable on February 15, 2012 to common shareholders of record on January 31, 2012. 
  Long-Term Borrowings. 
  Subsequent to December 31, 2011 and through February 10, 2012, the
Company’s long-term borrowings (net of issuances) decreased by approximately $6.8 billion.    Saxon.   
On October 24, 2011, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement to sell Saxon, a provider of servicing and subservicing of residential
mortgage loans, to Ocwen Financial Corporation. The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2012.   
Quilter.   
On January 24, 2012, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement to sell Quilter, its retail wealth management business in
the U.K. The transaction is expected to close during the first half of 2012. 
 











 
260
 



Table of Contents
FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) 
Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Income   
















 
 
2011
 

 
 
AverageWeeklyBalance
 
 
Interest
 
 
AverageRate
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
 



 



 




 Interest earning assets:
 



 



 




 Financial instruments owned(1):
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
$
122,704
  
 
$
2,636
  
 
 
2.1
% 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
114,445
  
 
 
957
  
 
 
0.8
  

 Securities available for sale:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
27,712
  
 
 
348
  
 
 
1.3
  

 Loans:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
12,294
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
2.7
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
420
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
7.1
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
41,256
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
0.1
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
16,558
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
0.8
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
191,843
  
 
 
(79
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
110,682
  
 
 
965
  
 
 
0.9
  

 Other:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
45,336
  
 
 
1,341
  
 
 
3.0
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
15,454
  
 
 
554
  
 
 
3.6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
$
698,704
  
 
$
7,264
  
 
 
1.0
% 


 



 
  
  
 
 




 Non-interest earning assets
 
 
140,131
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total assets
 
$
838,835
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Liabilities and Equity
 



 



 




 Interest bearing liabilities:
 



 



 




 Deposits:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
$
64,559
  
 
$
236
  
 
 
0.4
% 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
91
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
874
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
0.8
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
2,163
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
1.6
  

 Long-term debt:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
184,623
  
 
 
4,880
  
 
 
2.6
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
7,701
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
0.4
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased(1):
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
30,070
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
61,313
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
110,270
  
 
 
649
  
 
 
0.6
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
69,276
  
 
 
1,276
  
 
 
1.8
  

 Other:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
90,193
  
 
 
(1,089
) 
 
 
(1.2
) 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
38,139
  
 
 
882
  
 
 
2.3
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
$
659,272
  
 
$
6,907
  
 
 
1.0
  


 



 
  
  
 
 




 Non-interest bearing liabilities and equity
 
 
179,563
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
838,835
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Net interest income and net interest rate spread
 



 
$
357
  
 
 
—  
% 


 



 
  
  
 
 



  


(1)
Interest expense on Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is reported as a reduction of Interest income. 
 









 
261
 





Table of Contents
FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)—(Continued) 
Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Income   
















 
 
2010
 

 
 
AverageWeeklyBalance
 
 
Interest
 
 
AverageRate
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
 



 



 




 Interest earning assets:
 



 



 




 Financial instruments owned(1):
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
$
145,449
  
 
$
3,124
  
 
 
2.1
% 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
105,385
  
 
 
807
  
 
 
0.8
  

 Securities available for sale:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
18,290
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
1.2
  

 Loans:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
7,993
  
 
 
293
  
 
 
3.7
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
219
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
10.0
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
33,807
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
0.2
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
20,897
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
0.4
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
193,796
  
 
 
236
  
 
 
0.1
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
111,982
  
 
 
533
  
 
 
0.5
  

 Other:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
32,400
  
 
 
1,571
  
 
 
4.8
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
18,091
  
 
 
355
  
 
 
2.0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
$
688,309
  
 
$
7,311
  
 
 
1.1
% 


 



 
  
  
 
 




 Non-interest earning assets
 
 
142,761
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total assets
 
$
831,070
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Liabilities and Equity
 



 



 




 Interest bearing liabilities:
 



 



 




 Deposits:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
$
62,759
  
 
$
310
  
 
 
0.5
% 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
70
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
1,599
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
0.7
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
1,772
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
1.0
  

 Long-term debt:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
186,374
  
 
 
4,586
  
 
 
2.5
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
5,170
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
0.1
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased(1):
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
22,947
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
58,741
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
116,090
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
0.6
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
94,498
  
 
 
866
  
 
 
0.9
  

 Other:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
97,585
  
 
 
(497
) 
 
 
(0.5
) 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
23,852
  
 
 
390
  
 
 
1.6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
$
671,457
  
 
$
6,414
  
 
 
1.0
  


 



 
  
  
 
 




 Non-interest bearing liabilities and equity
 
 
159,613
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
831,070
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Net interest income and net interest rate spread
 



 
$
897
  
 
 
0.1
% 


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Interest expense on Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is reported as a reduction of Interest income. 
 











 
262
 



Table of Contents
FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)—(Continued) 
Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Income   
















 
 
2009
 

 
 
AverageWeeklyBalance(1)
 
 
Interest
 
 
AverageRate
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 Assets
 



 



 




 Interest earning assets:
 



 



 




 Financial instruments owned(2):
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
$
143,885
  
 
$
4,024
  
 
 
2.8
% 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
77,531
  
 
 
907
  
 
 
1.2
  

 Loans:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
6,339
  
 
 
207
  
 
 
3.3
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
314
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
7.0
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
44,523
  
 
 
149
  
 
 
0.3
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
16,300
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
0.6
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
176,904
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
0.1
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
85,079
  
 
 
622
  
 
 
0.7
  

 Other:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
27,691
  
 
 
1,224
  
 
 
4.4
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
17,261
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
$
595,827
  
 
$
7,477
  
 
 
1.2
% 


 



 
  
  
 
 




 Non-interest earning assets
 
 
145,719
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total assets
 
$
741,546
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Liabilities and Equity
 



 



 




 Interest bearing liabilities:
 



 



 




 Deposits:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
$
61,164
  
 
$
782
  
 
 
1.3
% 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
116
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
2,101
  
 
$
31
  
 
 
1.5
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
1,276
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
1.6
  

 Long-term debt:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
181,280
  
 
 
4,882
  
 
 
2.7
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
3,712
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
0.4
  

 Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased(2):
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
29,153
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
40,440
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
115,653
  
 
 
749
  
 
 
0.6
  

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
49,222
  
 
 
625
  
 
 
1.3
  

 Other:
 



 



 




 U.S. 
 
 
84,015
  
 
 
(616
) 
 
 
(0.7
) 

 Non-U.S. 
 
 
29,437
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
0.7
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
$
597,569
  
 
$
6,687
  
 
 
1.1
  


 



 
  
  
 
 




 Non-interest bearing liabilities and equity
 
 
143,977
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
741,546
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 




 Net interest income and net interest rate spread
 



 
$
790
  
 
 
0.1
% 


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
The Company calculates its average balances based upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances are unavailable, month-end balances are used.



(2)
Interest expense on Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is reported as a reduction of Interest income. 
 









 
263
 





Table of Contents
FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)—(Continued) 
  Rate/Volume Analysis 
  The following tables set forth an analysis of the effect on net interest
income of volume and rate changes:   
















 
  
2011 versus 2010
 

 
  
Increase (decrease) due to change in:
 
 
 
 

 
  
        Volume        

 
 
        Rate        

 
 
Net Change
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Interest earning assets
  



 



 




 Financial instruments owned:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
$
(489
) 
 
$
1
  
 
$
(488
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
69
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
150
  

 Securities available for sale:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
111
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
133
  

 Loans:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
158
  
 
 
(125
) 
 
 
33
  

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
20
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
8
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
15
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(18
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
(18
) 
 
 
67
  
 
 
49
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(313
) 
 
 
(315
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
438
  
 
 
432
  

 Other:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
627
  
 
 
(857
) 
 
 
(230
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
(52
) 
 
 
251
  
 
 
199
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in interest income
  
$
433
  
 
$
(480
) 
 
$
(47
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest bearing liabilities
  



 



 




 Deposits:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
$
9
  
 
$
(83
) 
 
$
(74
) 

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
(4
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
4
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
17
  

 Long-term debt:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
(43
) 
 
 
337
  
 
 
294
  

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
3
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
26
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
(36
) 
 
 
(40
) 
 
 
(76
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
(231
) 
 
 
641
  
 
 
410
  

 Other:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
37
  
 
 
(629
) 
 
 
(592
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
233
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
492
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in interest expense
  
$
(29
) 
 
$
522
  
 
$
493
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in net interest income
  
$
462
  
 
$
(1,002
) 
 
$
(540
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 











 
264
 



Table of Contents
FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)—(Continued) 
 
















 
  
2010 versus 2009
 

 
  
Increase (decrease) due to change in:
 
 
 
 

 
  
        Volume        

 
 
        Rate        

 
 
Net Change
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Interest earning assets
  



 



 




 Financial instruments owned:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
$
44
  
 
$
(944
) 
 
$
(900
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
326
  
 
 
(426
) 
 
 
(100
) 

 Securities available for sale:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
215
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
215
  

 Loans:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
54
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
86
  

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
(36
) 
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
(82
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
26
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(4
) 

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
23
  
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
197
  
 
 
(286
) 
 
 
(89
) 

 Other:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
208
  
 
 
139
  
 
 
347
  

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
362
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in interest income
  
$
1,050
  
 
$
(1,216
) 
 
$
(166
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest bearing liabilities
  



 



 




 Deposits:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
$
20
  
 
$
(492
) 
 
$
(472
) 

 Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(20
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
8
  
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(3
) 

 Long-term debt:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
137
  
 
 
(433
) 
 
 
(296
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
6
  
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
(10
) 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
3
  
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(24
) 

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
575
  
 
 
(334
) 
 
 
241
  

 Other:
  



 



 




 U.S. 
  
 
(100
) 
 
 
219
  
 
 
119
  

 Non-U.S. 
  
 
(37
) 
 
 
229
  
 
 
192
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in interest expense
  
$
605
  
 
$
(878
) 
 
$
(273
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in net interest income
  
$
445
  
 
$
(338
) 
 
$
107
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 









 
265
 





Table of Contents
FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)—(Continued) 
  Deposits 
 




























 
  
Average Deposits(1)
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
AverageAmount(1)
 
  
AverageRate
 
 
AverageAmount(1)
 
  
AverageRate
 
 
AverageAmount(1)
 
  
AverageRate
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Deposits(2):
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Savings deposits
  
$
61,258
  
  
 
0.2
% 
 
$
58,053
  
  
 
0.2
% 
 
$
52,397
  
  
 
0.9
% 

 Time deposits
  
 
3,392
  
  
 
3.5
% 
 
 
4,776
  
  
 
3.7
% 
 
 
8,883
  
  
 
3.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
$
64,650
  
  
 
0.4
% 
 
$
62,829
  
  
 
0.5
% 
 
$
61,280
  
  
 
1.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



  


(1)
The Company calculates its average balances based upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances are unavailable, month-end balances are used.



(2)
Deposits are primarily located in U.S. offices.   
Ratios   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net income to average assets
  
 
0.5
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
0.2
% 

 Return on common equity(1)
  
 
3.8
% 
 
 
8.5
% 
 
 
N/M
  

 Return on total equity(2)
  
 
6.9
% 
 
 
9.0
% 
 
 
2.8
% 

 Dividend payout ratio(3)
  
 
16.3
% 
 
 
7.6
% 
 
 
N/M
  

 Total average common equity to average assets
  
 
6.5
% 
 
 
5.1
% 
 
 
4.6
% 

 Total average equity to average assets
  
 
7.1
% 
 
 
6.3
% 
 
 
6.5
% 
  
N/M—Not meaningful. 


(1)
Based on net income applicable to common shareholders as a percentage of average common equity. 


(2)
Based on net income as a percentage of average total equity. 


(3)
Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of net income per diluted share. 
  Short-term Borrowings 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Securities sold under repurchase agreements(1):
  



 



 




 Period-end balance
  
$
104,800
  
 
$
147,598
  
 
$
159,401
  

 Average balance(2)(3)
  
 
142,784
  
 
 
178,673
  
 
 
142,197
  

 Maximum balance at any month-end
  
 
164,511
  
 
 
216,130
  
 
 
210,482
  






 Securities loaned(1):
  



 



 




 Period-end balance
  
$
30,462
  
 
$
29,094
  
 
$
26,246
  

 Average balance(2)
  
 
36,762
  
 
 
31,915
  
 
 
22,679
  

 Maximum balance at any month-end
  
 
50,709
  
 
 
33,454
  
 
 
26,867
  






 Commercial paper:
  



 



 




 Period-end balance
  
$
978
  
 
$
945
  
 
$
783
  

 Average balance(2)
  
 
899
  
 
 
866
  
 
 
924
  

 Maximum balance at any month-end
  
 
978
  
 
 
1,098
  
 
 
5,367
  

 Weighted average interest rate during the period
  
 
2.1
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
2.4
% 

 Weighted average interest rate on period-end balance
  
 
2.7
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
0.8
% 
  


(1)
The Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions and fees, and interest income, along with the associated interest expense, as one
integrated activity for each of the Company’s separate businesses and, therefore, is unable to provide weighted average interest rates for Securities sold under repurchase agreements and Securities loaned. See Notes 1 and 17 of the consolidated
financial statements for further information. 
 











 
266
 



Table of Contents
FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)—(Continued) 
 


(2)
The Company calculates its average balances based upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances are unavailable, month-end balances are used.



(3)
In 2011, the period-end balance was lower than the annual average primarily due to a decrease in the overall balance sheet during the year. In 2010, period-end balance
was lower than the annual average primarily due to the seasonal maturity of client financing activity.   
Cross-border Outstandings   
Cross-border outstandings are based upon the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council’s (“FFIEC”) regulatory guidelines for
reporting cross-border risk. Claims include cash, receivables, securities purchased under agreements to resell, securities borrowed and cash trading instruments, but exclude commitments. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities
borrowed are presented based on the domicile of the counterparty, without reduction for related securities collateral held. For information regarding the Company’s country risk exposure, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk—Country Risk Exposure” in Part II, Item 7A herein.    The following tables set forth cross-border outstandings for each country in which cross-border outstandings exceed 1% of the Company’s consolidated assets or 20% of the Company’s total capital,
whichever is less, at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, in accordance with the FFIEC guidelines (dollars in millions):   




















  
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 Country
  
Banks
 
  
Governments
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 United Kingdom
  
$
13,852
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
89,585
  
  
$
103,439
  

 Cayman Islands
  
 
766
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
31,169
  
  
 
31,935
  

 France
  
 
23,561
  
  
 
1,096
  
  
 
4,196
  
  
 
28,853
  

 Japan
  
 
23,542
  
  
 
436
  
  
 
2,821
  
  
 
26,799
  

 Germany
  
 
18,674
  
  
 
3,485
  
  
 
1,859
  
  
 
24,018
  

 Netherlands
  
 
3,508
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
8,826
  
  
 
12,357
  

 Luxembourg
  
 
1,619
  
  
 
94
  
  
 
6,137
  
  
 
7,850
  

 Brazil
  
 
149
  
  
 
3,398
  
  
 
2,165
  
  
 
5,712
  

 Australia
  
 
2,008
  
  
 
557
  
  
 
1,414
  
  
 
3,979
  

 Italy
  
 
881
  
  
 
1,463
  
  
 
539
  
  
 
2,883
  
  




















  
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 Country
  
Banks
 
  
Governments
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 United Kingdom
  
$
8,555
  
  
$
1
  
  
$
38,057
  
  
$
46,613
  

 France
  
 
32,798
  
  
 
2,543
  
  
 
3,147
  
  
 
38,488
  

 Germany
  
 
21,952
  
  
 
6,477
  
  
 
2,203
  
  
 
30,632
  

 Cayman Islands
  
 
15
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
27,550
  
  
 
27,569
  

 Japan
  
 
12,523
  
  
 
1,444
  
  
 
5,117
  
  
 
19,084
  

 Netherlands
  
 
3,818
  
  
 
61
  
  
 
8,035
  
  
 
11,914
  

 Brazil
  
 
1,006
  
  
 
748
  
  
 
6,833
  
  
 
8,587
  

 Luxembourg
  
 
2,924
  
  
 
483
  
  
 
4,811
  
  
 
8,218
  

 Korea
  
 
63
  
  
 
5,881
  
  
 
1,429
  
  
 
7,373
  

 Italy
  
 
1,660
  
  
 
1,730
  
  
 
1,229
  
  
 
4,619
  

 Australia
  
 
1,571
  
  
 
187
  
  
 
1,261
  
  
 
3,019
  
   For cross-border exposure that exceeds
0.75% but does not exceed 1% of the Company’s consolidated assets, Korea, Singapore, Canada and certain other countries had a total cross-border exposure of $26,908 million at December 31, 2011, and Ireland, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan and
certain other countries had a total cross-border exposure of $35,896 million at December 31, 2010. 
 









 
267
 





Table of Contents


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.    None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures.   
Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. 
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive
Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report. 
  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
   Our management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.    Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:   


 
•
 
 Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
Company;   


 
•
 
 Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the Company’s management and directors; and 
 


 
•
 
 Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a
material effect on our financial statements.   
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on management’s assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.    The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has audited and issued a report on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting, which appears below. 
 











 
268
 



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley: 
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Morgan
Stanley and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.    Because of
the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely
basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.    In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial
statements of the Company as of December 31, 2011, and for the year ended December 31, 2011, and our report dated February 27, 2012 expresses an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
  /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
New York, New York  February 27, 2012

 









 
269
 



Table of Contents
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 
  No change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
(as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
  
Item 9B.    Other Information.    Not applicable. 
 











 
270
 



Table of Contents
Part III 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.   
Information relating to the Company’s directors and nominees under the following captions in the Company’s definitive proxy statement for its
2012 annual meeting of shareholders (“Morgan Stanley’s Proxy Statement”) is incorporated by reference herein.   


 
•
 
 “Item 1—Election of Directors—Director Nominees”   


 
•
 
 “Item 1—Election of Directors—Corporate Governance—Board Meetings and Committees” 
 


 
•
 
 “Item 1—Election of Directors—Beneficial Ownership of Company Common Stock—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance”    Information relating to the
Company’s executive officers is contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report under “Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.”   
Morgan Stanley’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Controller. You can find our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct on our internet site, www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance/ms_coe_bc.html. We will post any amendments to the
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the NYSE, on our internet site.   


Item 11.
Executive Compensation.   
Information relating to director and executive officer compensation under the following captions in Morgan Stanley’s Proxy Statement is
incorporated by reference herein.   


 
•
 
 “Item 1—Election of Directors—Executive Compensation”   


 
•
 
 “Item 1—Election of Directors—Corporate Governance—Director Compensation” 
 









 
271
 





Table of Contents


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
  Information relating to equity compensation plans and security ownership of
certain beneficial owners and management is set forth under the captions “Item 3—Company Proposal to Amend the 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan—Equity Compensation Plan Information” and “Item 1—Beneficial
Ownership of Company Common Stock” in Morgan Stanley’s Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.   


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 
  Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions under
the following caption in Morgan Stanley’s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.   


 
•
 
 “Item 1—Election of Directors—Corporate Governance—Related Person Transactions Policy” 
 


 
•
 
 “Item 1—Election of Directors—Corporate Governance—Certain Transactions” 
  Information regarding director independence under the following caption in
Morgan Stanley’s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.   


 
•
 
 “Item 1—Election of Directors—Corporate Governance—Director Independence” 
 


Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services.   
Information regarding principal accountant fees and services under the following caption in Morgan Stanley’s Proxy Statement is incorporated by
reference herein.   


 
•
 
 “Item 2—Ratification of Appointment of Morgan Stanley’s Independent Auditor” (excluding the information under the subheading
“Audit Committee Report”) 
 











 
272
 



Table of Contents
Part IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.   
Documents filed as part of this report.   


 
•
 
 The consolidated financial statements required to be filed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are included in Part II, Item 8 hereof.
  


 
•
 
 An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report beginning on page E-1 and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 









 
273
 





Table of Contents
Signatures 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 27, 2012. 
 








 MORGAN STANLEY (REGISTRANT )

By:
 
 /s/    JAMES P.
GORMAN


 
 (James P. Gorman)
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
   POWER OF ATTORNEY
   We, the undersigned, hereby severally constitute Ruth Porat,
Eric F. Grossman and Martin M. Cohen, and each of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 27th day of February, 2012.   






 Signature
  
 Title




 /s/    JAMES P.
GORMAN         (James P. Gorman)
  
 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)




 /s/    RUTH
PORAT         (Ruth Porat)
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)




 /s/    PAUL C.
WIRTH         (Paul C. Wirth)
  
 Deputy Chief Financial Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)




 /s/    ROY J.
BOSTOCK         (Roy J. Bostock)
  
Director




 /s/    ERSKINE B.
BOWLES         (Erskine B. Bowles)
  
Director




 /s/    HOWARD J.
DAVIES         (Howard J. Davies)
  
Director




 /s/    JAMES H. HANCE,
JR.         (James H. Hance, Jr.)
  
Director




 /s/    C. ROBERT
KIDDER         (C. Robert Kidder)
  
Director




 /s/    DONALD T.
NICOLAISEN         (Donald T. Nicolaisen)
  
Director
 









 
S-1
 
 




Table of Contents






 Signature
  
 Title




 /s/    HUTHAM S.
OLAYAN         (Hutham S. Olayan)
  
Director




 /s/    JAMES W.
OWENS         (James W. Owens)
  
Director




 /s/    O. GRIFFITH
SEXTON         (O. Griffith Sexton)
  
Director




 /s/    RYOSUKE
TAMAKOSHI         (Ryosuke Tamakoshi)
  
Director




 /s/    MASAAKI
TANAKA         (Masaaki Tanaka)
  
Director




 /s/    LAURA D’ANDREA
TYSON         (Laura D’Andrea Tyson)
  
Director

 











 
S-2
 



Table of Contents
     
       
     
    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K 
  For the year ended December 31, 2011 
Commission File No. 1-11758   


  


Table of Contents
Exhibit Index 
  Certain of the following exhibits, as indicated parenthetically, were
previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act or to reports or registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Exchange
Act and are hereby incorporated by reference to such statements or reports. Morgan Stanley’s Exchange Act file number is 1-11758. The Exchange Act file number of Morgan Stanley Group Inc., a predecessor company (“MSG”), was
1-9085.1 
 






ExhibitNo.
  
 Description

  2.1
  
Amended and Restated Joint Venture Contribution and Formation Agreement dated as of May 29, 2009 by and among Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
Holdings LLC (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 29, 2009).




  2.2
  
Integration and Investment Agreement dated as of March 30, 2010 by and between Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. and Morgan Stanley (Exhibit 2.2 to Morgan Stanley’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011).




  3.1
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date (Exhibit 3 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarter Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
30, 2009).




  3.2
  
Certificate of Elimination of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (Exhibit 3.1 Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July
20, 2011).




  3.3
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date (Exhibit 3.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 9, 2010).




  4.1
  
Indenture dated as of February 24, 1993 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley’s Registration Statement on Form S-3
(No. 33-57202)).




  4.2
  
Amended and Restated Senior Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-e to Morgan Stanley’s Registration
Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289) as amended by Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of October 8, 2007 (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007).




  4.3
  
Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley’s Registration Statement on
Form S-3/A (No. 333-117752), as amended by First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 4, 2007 (Exhibit 4.5 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007), Second Supplemental
Senior Indenture dated as of January 4, 2008 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 2008), Third Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 10, 2008 (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2008), Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of December 1, 2008 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 1, 2008) ; Fifth Supplemental Senior
Indenture dated as of April 1, 2009 (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009) and Sixth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 16, 2011 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011).




  4.4*
  
Seventh Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of November 21, 2011 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York Mellon, as
trustee.  


(1)
For purposes of this Exhibit Index, references to “The Bank of New York” mean in some instances the entity successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P.
Morgan Trust Company, National Association; references to “JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.” mean the entity formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, in some instances as the successor to Chemical Bank; references to “J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, N.A.” mean the entity formerly known as Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago. 
 









 
E-1
 
 




Table of Contents






ExhibitNo.
  
 Description

  4.5
  
The Unit Agreement Without Holders’ Obligations, dated as of August 29, 2008, between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Unit Agent, as Trustee and Paying
Agent under the Senior Indenture referred to therein and as Warrant Agent under the Warrant Agreement referred to therein (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 29, 2008).




  4.6
  
Amended and Restated Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley’s
Registration Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289)).




  4.7
  
Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-g to Morgan Stanley’s Registration Statement
on Form S-3/A (No. 333-117752)).




  4.8
  
Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of March 1, 1998 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 1998).




  4.9
  
Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-ww to Morgan Stanley’s Registration
Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-117752)).




  4.10
  
Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 12, 2006 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006).




  4.11
  
Deposit Agreement dated as of July 6, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein
(Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).




  4.12
  
Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (included in Exhibit 4.10 hereto).




  4.13
  
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III dated as of February 27, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property
trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee, and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2003).




  4.14
  
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV dated as of April 21, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee,
The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware Trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2003).




  4.15
  
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V dated as of July 16, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee,
The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2003).




  4.16
  
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VI dated as of January 26, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property
trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2006).




  4.17
  
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII dated as of October 12, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property
trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 12,
2006).
 











 
E-2
 



Table of Contents






ExhibitNo.
  
 Description

  4.18
  
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII dated as of April 26, 2007 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property
trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 26, 2007).




  4.19
  
Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures—Except as set forth in Exhibits 4.1 through 4.18 above, the instruments defining the rights of
holders of long-term debt securities of Morgan Stanley and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Morgan Stanley hereby agrees to furnish copies of these instruments to the SEC upon
request.




10.1*
  
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement dated as of October 18, 2011 by and between Morgan Stanley and State Street Bank and Trust Company.




10.2
  
Transaction Agreement dated as of October 19, 2009 between Morgan Stanley and Invesco Ltd. (Exhibit 10 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2009).




10.3
  
Letter Agreement dated as of May 28, 2010 between Morgan Stanley and Invesco Ltd. (Exhibit 2.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 28,
2010).




10.4
  
Transaction Agreement dated as of April 21, 2011 between Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated April 21, 2011).




10.5
  
Amended and Restated Investor Agreement dated as of June 30, 2011 by and between Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.(Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 2011).




10.6†
  
Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan (f/k/a the Morgan Stanley DPSP/START Plan) dated as of October 1, 2002 (Exhibit 10.17 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended November 30, 2002) as amended by Amendment (Exhibit 10.18 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2002), Amendment (Exhibit 10.18 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2003), Amendment (Exhibit 10.19 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2003), Amendment (Exhibit 10 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2004), Amendment (Exhibit 10.16 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2004), Amendment (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended February 28, 2005), Amendment (Exhibit 10.2 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2005), Amendment (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended May 31, 2005), Amendment (Exhibit 10.8 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005), Amendment (Exhibit 10 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
February 28, 2007), Amendment (Exhibit 10.2 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2007), Amendment (Exhibit 10.6 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November
30, 2007), Amendment (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2008), Amendment (Exhibit 10.12 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30,
2008), Amendment (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009), Amendment (Exhibit 10.2 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2009), Amendment (Exhibit 10.9 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009), Amendment (Exhibit 10.6 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010) and Amendment
(Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011).
 









 
E-3
 
 




Table of Contents






ExhibitNo.
  
 Description

10.7†*
  
Amendment to Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan, dated as of December 23, 2011.




10.8†
  
Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan, dated as of July 1, 2009 (Exhibit 10.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009) as amended
by Amendment (Exhibit 10.11 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009), Amendment (Exhibit 10.8 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010) and Amendment
(Exhibit 10.2 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011).




10.9†*
  
Amendment to Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan, dated as of December 23, 2011.




10.10†
  
1994 Omnibus Equity Plan as amended and restated (Exhibit 10.23 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2003) as amended by
Amendment (Exhibit 10.11 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006).




10.11†
  
Tax Deferred Equity Participation Plan as amended and restated as of November 26, 2007 (Exhibit 10.9 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
November 30, 2007).




10.12†
  
Directors’ Equity Capital Accumulation Plan as amended through November 16, 2009 (Exhibit 10.14 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009).




10.13†
  
Select Employees’ Capital Accumulation Program as amended and restated as of May 7, 2008 (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended May 31, 2008).




10.14†
  
Form of Term Sheet under the Select Employees’ Capital Accumulation Program (Exhibit 10.9 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
February 29, 2008).




10.15†
  
Employees’ Equity Accumulation Plan as amended and restated as of November 26, 2007 (Exhibit 10.12 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended November 30, 2007).




10.16†
  
Employee Stock Purchase Plan as amended and restated as of February 1, 2009 (Exhibit 10.20 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
November 30, 2008).




10.17†
  
Form of Agreement under the Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated Owners’ and Select Earners’ Plan (Exhibit 10.1 to MSG’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended January 31, 1993).




10.18†
  
Form of Agreement under the Officers’ and Select Earners’ Plan (Exhibit 10.2 to MSG’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31,
1993).




10.19†
  
Morgan Stanley Supplemental Executive Retirement and Excess Plan, amended and restated effective December 31, 2008 (Exhibit 10.2 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009) as amended by Amendment (Exhibit 10.5 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009), Amendment (Exhibit 10.19 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010) and Amendment (Exhibit 10.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011).




10.20†
  
1995 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (Annex A to MSG’s Proxy Statement for its 1996 Annual Meeting of Stockholders) as amended by Amendment (Exhibit 10.39 to Morgan
Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2000), Amendment (Exhibit 10.5 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2005), Amendment (Exhibit 10.3 to Morgan
Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2006), Amendment (Exhibit 10.24 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006) and Amendment (Exhibit 10.22 to Morgan
Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007).
 











 
E-4
 



Table of Contents






ExhibitNo.
  
 Description

10.21†
  
Form of Equity Incentive Compensation Plan Award Certificate (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31,
2004).




10.22†
  
Form of Management Committee Equity Award Certificate for Discretionary Retention Award of Stock Units and Stock Options (Exhibit 10.30 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006).




10.23†
  
1988 Capital Accumulation Plan as amended (Exhibit 10.13 to MSG’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).




10.24†
  
Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement under the Pre-Tax Incentive Program (Exhibit 10.12 to MSG’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31,
1994).




10.25†
  
Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement under the Pre-Tax Incentive Program 2 (Exhibit 10.12 to MSG’s Annual Report for the fiscal year ended November 30,
1996).




10.26†
  
Key Employee Private Equity Recognition Plan (Exhibit 10.43 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2000).




10.27†
  
Morgan Stanley Branch Manager Compensation Plan as amended and restated as of November 26, 2007 (Exhibit 10.33 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended November 30, 2007).




10.28†
  
Morgan Stanley Financial Advisor and Investment Representative Compensation Plan as amended and restated as of November 26, 2007 (Exhibit 10.34 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007).




10.29†
  
Morgan Stanley UK Share Ownership Plan (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-146954)).




10.30†
  
Supplementary Deed of Participation for the Morgan Stanley UK Share Ownership Plan, dated as of November 5, 2009 (Exhibit 10.36 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).




10.31†
  
Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2010, by and between Corporate Services Support Corp. and James P. Gorman (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan
Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010).




10.32†
  
Agreement between Morgan Stanley and James P. Gorman, dated August 16, 2005, and amendment to agreement dated December 17, 2008 (Exhibit 10.2 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010).




10.33†
  
Agreement between Morgan Stanley and Gregory J. Fleming, dated February 3, 2010 (Exhibit 10.5 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
31, 2011).




10.34†
  
Memorandum dated as of August 21, 2007 to Walid Chammah regarding Relocation from United States to London Office (Exhibit 10.7 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009).




10.35†
  
Form of Restrictive Covenant Agreement (Exhibit 10 to Morgan Stanley’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 22, 2005).




10.36†
  
Morgan Stanley Performance Formula and Provisions (Exhibit 10.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).




10.37†
  
2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of July 20, 2011 (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2011).
 









 
E-5
 
 




Table of Contents






ExhibitNo.
  
 Description

10.38†
  
Morgan Stanley 2006 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan, as amended and restated as of November 28, 2008 (Exhibit 10.47 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008).




10.39†
  
Form of Award Certificate under the 2006 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan (Exhibit 10.7 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
February 29, 2008).




10.40†
  
Morgan Stanley 2007 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan, amended as of June 4, 2009 (Exhibit 10.6 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2009).




10.41†
  
Form of Award Certificate under the 2007 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan for Certain Management Committee Members (Exhibit 10.8 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 29, 2008).




10.42†
  
Form of Award Certificate for Discretionary Retention Awards of Stock Units to Certain Management Committee Members (Exhibit 10.10 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 29, 2008).




10.43†
  
Form of Award Certificate for Discretionary Retention Awards of Stock Units (Exhibit 10.8 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
31, 2009).




10.44†
  
Form of Award Certificate for Discretionary Retention Awards of Stock Units (Exhibit 10.4 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
31, 2010).




10.45†
  
Governmental Service Amendment to Outstanding Stock Option and Stock Unit Awards (replacing and superseding in its entirety Exhibit 10.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2007) (Exhibit 10.41 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007).




10.46†
  
Amendment to Outstanding Stock Option and Stock Unit Awards (Exhibit 10.53 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30,
2008).




10.47†
  
Morgan Stanley Compensation Incentive Plan (Exhibit 10.54 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008).




10.48†
  
Form of Award Certificate under the Morgan Stanley Compensation Incentive Plan (Exhibit 10.9 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2009).




10.49†
  
Form of Award Certificate under the Morgan Stanley Compensation Incentive Plan (Exhibit 10.5 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2010).




10.50†
  
Form of Executive Waiver (Exhibit 10.55 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008).




10.51†
  
Form of Executive Letter Agreement (Exhibit 10.56 to Morgan Stanley’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008).




10.52†
  
Morgan Stanley 2009 Replacement Equity Incentive Compensation Plan for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Employees (Exhibit 4.2 to Morgan Stanley’s Registration Statement on Form
S-8 (No. 333-159504)).




10.53†
  
Form of Award Certificate for Performance Stock Units (Exhibit 10.6 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2010).




10.54†
  
Form of Award Certificate for Discretionary Retention Awards of Stock Units (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
31, 2011).




10.55†
  
Form of Award Certificate for Awards under the Deferred Bonus Program of the Morgan Stanley Compensation Incentive Plan. (Exhibit 10.2 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011).
 











 
E-6
 



Table of Contents






ExhibitNo.
 
 Description

10.56†
 
Form of Award Certificate for Performance Stock Units (Exhibit 10.3 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2011).




10.57†
 
Form of Award Certificate for Special Discretionary Retention Awards of Stock Options (Exhibit 10.4 to Morgan Stanley’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2011).




10.58†*
 
Senior Advisor Arrangement with John J. Mack, effective January 1, 2012.




10.59†*
 
Morgan Stanley Schedule of Non-Employee Directors Annual Compensation, effective as of May 17, 2011.




10.60†*
 
Strategic Equity Investment Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2009.




12*
 
Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.




21*
 
Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley.




23.1*
 
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.




24
 
Powers of Attorney (included on signature page).




31.1*
 
Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.




31.2*
 
Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.




32.1**
 
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.




32.2**
 
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.




101
 
Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition—December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
(ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2011, December
31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity—Twelve
Months Ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
  


*
Filed herewith. 


**
Furnished herewith. 


†
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b). 
 









 
E-7
 
 




Table of Contents
  





