
10-K
1
d260634d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
  


x
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011 
or   


¨
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from
                    to                     
 Commission File Number: 1-11718 
   
EQUITY LIFESTYLE PROPERTIES, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






Maryland
 
36-3857664

(State or Other Jurisdiction ofIncorporation or Organization)
 
(I.R.S. EmployerIdentification No.)




Two North Riverside Plaza,Suite 800, Chicago, Illinois
 
60606

(Address of PrincipalExecutive Offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 (312) 279-1400  (Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






Common Stock, $.01 Par Value
 
New York Stock Exchange

(Title of Class)
 
(Name of exchange on which registered)




8.034% Series A CumulativeRedeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock
 
New York Stock Exchange

(Title of Class)
 
(Name of exchange on which registered)
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None   
  Indicate by
check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the
Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a
smaller reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
 










 Large accelerated filer
 
 x
  
 Accelerated filer
 
 ¨






 Non-accelerated filer
 
 ¨  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  
 Smaller reporting company
 
 ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).     Yes  ¨    No  x 
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $2,137.1 million as of June 30, 2011 based upon
the closing price of $62.44 on such date using beneficial ownership of stock rules adopted pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to exclude voting stock owned by Directors and Officers, some of whom may not be held to be
affiliates upon judicial determination.  At February 27, 2012, 41,296,856 shares of the Registrant’s common stock
were outstanding.     
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:  Part III incorporates by reference portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 8, 2012. 
   
 


Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   












 
  
 
  
 
  
Page
 

 PART I.
  

  










  
 Item 1.
  
 Business
  
 
1
  


  
 Item 1A.
  
 Risk Factors
  
 
8
  


  
 Item 1B.
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
18
  


  
 Item 2.
  
 Properties
  
 
18
  


  
 Item 3.
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
28
  


  
 Item 4.
  
 [Removed and Reserved]
  
 
28
  





 PART II.
  

  










  
 Item 5.
  
 Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
 Securities
  
 
29
  


  
 Item 6.
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
30
  


  
 Item 7.
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
33
  


  
 Item 7A.
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
55
  


  

  
 Forward-Looking Statements 
  
 
55
  


  
 Item 8.
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
57
  


  
 Item 9.
  
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
58
  


  
 Item 9A.
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
58
  


  
 Item 9B.
  
 Other Information
  
 
59
  





 PART III.
  

  










  
 Item 10.
  
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
60
  


  
 Item 11.
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
60
  


  
 Item 12.
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
60
  


  
 Item 13.
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
  
 
60
  


  
 Item 14.
  
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
60
  





 PART IV.
  

  










  
 Item 15.
  
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
61
  

  - i -



Table of Contents
PART I 
 


Item 1.
Business  Equity
LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  General  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation, together with MHC Operating Limited Partnership (the “Operating Partnership”) and its other consolidated subsidiaries (the
“Subsidiaries”), are referred to herein as the “Company” and “ELS.” ELS elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with its taxable year
ended December 31, 1993.  The Company is a fully integrated owner and operator of lifestyle-oriented
properties (“Properties”). The Company leases individual developed areas (“sites”) with access to utilities for placement of factory built homes, cottages, cabins or recreational vehicles (“RVs”). Customers may lease
individual sites or enter right-to-use contracts providing the customer access to specific Properties for limited stays. The Company was formed in December 1992 to continue the property operations, business objectives and acquisition strategies of
an entity that had owned and operated Properties since 1969. As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned or had an ownership interest in a portfolio of 382 Properties located throughout the United States and Canada, consisting of 141,132
residential sites. These Properties are located in 32 states and British Columbia (with the number of Properties in each state or province shown parenthetically) as follows: Florida (119), California (49), Arizona (41), Michigan (15), Pennsylvania
(15), Texas (15), Washington (15), Colorado (10), Oregon (9), North Carolina (8), Delaware (7), Indiana (7), Nevada (7), New York (7), Virginia (7), Maine (5), Massachusetts (5), Wisconsin (5), Idaho (4), Illinois (4), Minnesota (4), New Jersey (4),
South Carolina (3), Utah (3), Maryland (2), New Hampshire (2), North Dakota (2), Ohio (2), Tennessee (2), Alabama (1), Connecticut (1), Kentucky (1), and British Columbia (1). 
Properties are designed and improved for several home options of various sizes and designs that are produced off-site,
installed and set on designated sites (“Site Set”) within the Properties. These homes can range from 400 to over 2,000 square feet. The smallest of these homes are referred to as “Resort Cottages.” Properties may also have sites
that can accommodate a variety of RVs. Properties generally contain centralized entrances, internal road systems and designated sites. In addition, Properties often provide a clubhouse for social activities and recreation and other amenities, which
may include restaurants, swimming pools, golf courses, lawn bowling, shuffleboard courts, tennis courts, laundry facilities and cable television service. In some cases, utilities are provided or arranged for by the Company; otherwise, the customer
contracts for the utility directly. Some Properties provide water and sewer service through municipal or regulated utilities, while others provide these services to customers from on-site facilities. Properties generally are designed to attract
retirees, empty-nesters, vacationers and second home owners; however, certain of the Company’s Properties focus on affordable housing for families. The Company focuses on owning properties in or near large metropolitan markets and retirement
and vacation destinations.  Employees and Organizational Structure 
The Company has an annual average of approximately 3,500 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees dedicated to carrying
out its operating philosophy and strategies of value enhancement and service to its customers. The operations of each Property are coordinated by an on-site team of employees that typically includes a manager, clerical staff and maintenance workers,
each of whom works to provide maintenance and care to the Properties. Direct supervision of on-site management is the responsibility of the Company’s regional vice presidents and regional and district managers. These individuals have
substantial experience in addressing the needs of customers and in finding or creating innovative approaches to maximize value and increase cash flow from property operations. Complementing this field management staff are approximately 200 full-time
corporate employees who assist on-site and regional management in all property functions. 
  1 


Table of Contents
Formation of the Company 
The operations of the Company are conducted primarily through the Operating Partnership. The Company contributed the
proceeds from its initial public offering in 1993 and subsequent offerings to the Operating Partnership for a general partnership interest. In 2004, the general partnership interest was contributed to MHC Trust, a private REIT subsidiary owned by
the Company. The financial results of the Operating Partnership and the Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, since certain activities, if performed by the Company, may not be qualifying
REIT activities under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), the Company has formed taxable REIT subsidiaries, as defined in the Code, to engage in such activities. 
Realty Systems, Inc. (“RSI”) is a wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiary of the Company that is engaged in the
business of purchasing and selling or leasing Site Set homes that are located in Properties owned and managed by the Company. RSI also provides brokerage services to residents at such Properties who move from a Property but do not relocate their
homes. RSI may provide brokerage services, in competition with other local brokers, by seeking buyers for the Site Set homes. Subsidiaries of RSI also operate ancillary activities at certain Properties, such as golf courses, pro shops, stores and
restaurants. Several Properties are also wholly owned by taxable REIT subsidiaries of the Company.  Business Objectives and Operating
Strategies  The Company’s primary business objective is to maximize both current income and long-term
growth in income. The Company’s operating strategy is to own and operate the highest quality properties in sought-after locations near urban areas and retirement and vacation destinations across the United States. 
The Company focuses on properties that have strong cash flow and plans to hold such properties for long-term investment
and capital appreciation. In determining cash flow potential, the Company evaluates its ability to attract and retain high quality customers to its Properties who take pride in the Property and in their homes. The Company’s investment,
operating and financing strategies include:   


 
•
 
 Providing consistently high levels of services and amenities in attractive surroundings to foster a strong sense of community and pride of home
ownership;   


 
•
 
 Efficiently managing the Properties to increase operating margins by controlling expenses, increasing occupancy and maintaining competitive market
rents;   


 
•
 
 Increasing income and property values by strategic expansion and, where appropriate, renovation of the Properties 
 


 
•
 
 Utilizing management information systems to evaluate potential acquisitions, identify and track competing properties and monitor customer
satisfaction;   


 
•
 
 Selectively acquiring properties that have potential for long-term cash flow growth and creating property concentrations in and around major
metropolitan areas and retirement or vacation destinations to capitalize on operating synergies and incremental efficiencies; and   


 
•
 
 Managing the Company’s debt balances such that the Company maintains financial flexibility, has minimal exposure to interest rate fluctuations
and maintains an appropriate degree of leverage to maximize return on capital.  The Company
focuses on creating an attractive residential environment by providing a well-maintained, comfortable Property with a variety of recreational and social activities and superior amenities, as well as offering a multitude of lifestyle housing choices.
In addition, the Company regularly conducts evaluations of the cost of housing in the marketplaces in which its Properties are located and surveys rental rates of competing properties. From time to time the Company also conducts satisfaction surveys
of its customers to determine the 
  2 


Table of Contents

factors they consider most important in choosing a property. The Company seeks to improve site utilization and efficiency by tracking types of customers and usage patterns and marketing to those
specific customer groups.  These business objectives and their implementation are determined by the
Company’s Board of Directors and may be changed at any time.  Acquisitions and Dispositions 
Over the last decade the Company’s portfolio of Properties has grown significantly from 148 owned or partly owned
Properties with over 50,000 sites to 382 owned or partly-owned Properties with over 141,000 sites. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company acquired 75 Properties with over 30,000 sites. The Company continually reviews the
Properties in its portfolio to ensure that they fit the Company’s business objectives. Over the last five years, the Company sold 12 Properties, and it redeployed capital to markets it believes have greater long-term potential. In that same
time period the Company acquired 84 Properties located in high growth areas such as Florida, Arizona and California.  The Company believes that opportunities for property acquisitions are still available. Increasing acceptability of and demand for a lifestyle that includes Site Set homes and RVs, as well as continued
constraints on development of new properties, adds to the attractiveness of the Company’s Properties as investments. The Company believes it has a competitive advantage in the acquisition of additional properties due to its experienced
management, significant presence in major real estate markets and substantial capital resources. The Company is actively seeking to acquire additional properties and is engaged in various stages of negotiations relating to the possible acquisition
of a number of properties. At any time these negotiations are at varying stages, which may include contracts outstanding, to acquire certain Properties, which are subject to the satisfactory completion of the Company’s due diligence review.
 The Company anticipates that new acquisitions will generally be located in the United States, although it may
consider other geographic locations provided they meet certain acquisition criteria. The Company utilizes market information systems to identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities, including the use of a market database to review the primary
economic indicators of the various locations in which it expects to expand its operations. Acquisitions will be financed from the most appropriate sources of capital, which may include undistributed funds from operations, issuance of additional
equity securities, sales of investments, collateralized and uncollateralized borrowings and issuance of debt securities. In addition, the Company may acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of limited partnership interests in
the Operating Partnership (“Units”) as consideration for the acquired properties. The Company believes that an ownership structure that includes the Operating Partnership will permit it to acquire additional properties in transactions that
may defer all or a portion of the sellers’ tax consequences.  When evaluating potential acquisitions, the
Company considers such factors as:   


 
•
 
 The replacement cost of the property, including land values, entitlements and zoning; 
 


 
•
 
 The geographic area and type of the property;   


 
•
 
 The location, construction quality, condition and design of the property; 
 


 
•
 
 The current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability to increase cash flow; 
 


 
•
 
 The potential for capital appreciation of the property; 
 


 
•
 
 The terms of tenant leases or usage rights, including the potential for rent increases; 
 


 
•
 
 The potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the community in which the property is located;
  


 
•
 
 The potential for expansion of the physical layout of the property and the number of sites; 
  3 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 The occupancy and demand by customers for properties of a similar type in the vicinity and the customers’ profile;
  


 
•
 
 The prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing of the property; and 
 


 
•
 
 The competition from existing properties and the potential for the construction of new properties in the area. 
When evaluating potential dispositions, the Company considers such factors as: 
 


 
•
 
 Its ability to sell the Property at a price that it believes will provide an appropriate return for its stockholders; 
 


 
•
 
 Its desire to exit certain non-core markets and recycle the capital into core markets; and 
 


 
•
 
 Whether the Property meets its current investment criteria. 
When investing capital, the Company considers all potential uses of the capital, including returning capital to its
stockholders. The Company’s Board of Directors continues to review the conditions under which it will repurchase the Company’s stock. These conditions include, but are not limited to, market price, balance sheet flexibility, other
opportunities and capital requirements.  Property Expansions 
Several of the Company’s Properties have available land for expanding the number of sites available to be utilized by
its customers. Development of these sites (“Expansion Sites”) is evaluated based on the following: local market conditions; ability to subdivide; accessibility through the Property or externally; infrastructure needs including utility
needs and access as well as additional common area amenities; zoning and entitlement; costs and uses of working capital; topography; and ability to market new sites. When justified, development of Expansion Sites allows the Company to leverage
existing facilities and amenities to increase the income generated from the Properties. Where appropriate, facilities and amenities may be upgraded or added to certain Properties to make those Properties more attractive in their markets. The
Company’s acquisition philosophy includes owning Properties with potential Expansion Site development. Approximately 79 of the Company’s Properties have expansion potential, with up to approximately 5,300 acres available for expansion.
 Leases or Usage Rights  At the Company’s Properties, a typical lease entered into between the owner or renter of a home and the Company for the rental of a site is for a month-to-month or year-to-year term, renewable upon
the consent of both parties or, in some instances, as provided by statute. These leases are cancelable, depending on applicable law, for non-payment of rent, violation of Property rules and regulations or other specified defaults. Non-cancelable
long-term leases, with remaining terms ranging up to ten years, are in effect at certain sites in 31 of the Properties. Some of these leases are subject to rental rate increases based on the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”), in some instances
taking into consideration market conditions, certain floors and ceilings and allowing for pass-throughs of certain items such as real estate taxes, utility expenses and capital expenditures. Generally, market rate adjustments, if appropriate, are
made on an annual basis. At Properties zoned for RV use, long-term customers typically enter into rental agreements and many customers prepay for their stays. Many resort customers also leave deposits to reserve a site for the following year.
Generally these customers cannot live full time on the Property. At resort Properties designated for use by customers who have entered a right-to-use or membership contract, the contract generally grants the customer access to designated Properties
on a continuous basis of up to 14 days. The customer may make a nonrefundable upfront payment, and annual dues payments are required to renew the contract. Most of the contracts provide for an annual dues increase, usually based on increases in the
CPI. Approximately 35% of current customers are not subject to annual dues increases in accordance with the terms of their contracts, generally because the customers are over 61 years old or in certain other limited circumstances. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Regulations and Insurance 
General. The Company’s Properties are subject to a variety of laws, ordinances and regulations, including
regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, clubhouses and other common areas, regulations relating to providing utility services, such as electricity, and regulations relating to operating water and wastewater treatment
facilities at certain of its Properties. The Company believes that each Property has all material permits and approvals necessary to operate.  Rent Control Legislation. At certain of the Company’s Properties, principally in California, state and local rent control laws limit the Company’s ability to increase rents and to recover
increases in operating expenses and the costs of capital improvements. Enactment of such laws has been considered from time to time in other jurisdictions. The Company presently expects to continue to maintain Properties, and may purchase additional
properties, in markets that are either subject to rent control or in which rent-limiting legislation exists or may be enacted. For example, Florida has enacted a law requiring that rental increases be reasonable. Also, certain jurisdictions in
California in which the Company owns Properties limit rent increases to changes in the CPI or some percentage of it. As part of the Company’s effort to realize the value of Properties subject to restrictive regulation, it has initiated lawsuits
against several municipalities imposing such regulations in an attempt to balance the interests of its stockholders with the interests of its customers (see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”). Further, at certain of the Company’s
Properties primarily used as membership campgrounds, state statutes limit the Company’s ability to close a Property unless a reasonable substitute property is made available for members’ use. Many states also have consumer protection laws
regulating right-to-use or campground membership sales and the financing of such sales. Some states have laws requiring the Company to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors”).
 Insurance. The Properties are insured against all risks causing property damage and business
interruption caused by fire, flood, earthquake, or windstorm, and the relevant insurance policies contain various deductible requirements, such as coverage limits and particular exclusions. The Company’s current property and casualty insurance
policies, which it plans to renew, expire on April 1, 2012. The Company has a $100 million loss limit with respect to its all-risk property insurance program including named windstorms, which include, for example, hurricanes. This loss limit is
subject to additional sub-limits as set forth in the policy form, including, among others, a $25 million loss limit for an earthquake in California. Policy deductibles primarily range from a $125,000 minimum to 5% per unit of insurance for most
catastrophic events. A deductible indicates ELS’ maximum exposure, subject to policy sub-limits, in the event of a loss. 
INDUSTRY  The Company believes that modern properties similar to its Properties provide an opportunity for increased cash flows and appreciation in value. These may be achieved through increases in occupancy rates
and rents, as well as expense controls, expansion of existing Properties and opportunistic acquisitions, for the following reasons:   


 
•
 
 Barriers to Entry: The Company believes that the supply of new properties in locations targeted by the Company will be constrained by
barriers to entry. The most significant barrier has been the difficulty of securing zoning permits from local authorities. This has been the result of (i) the public’s historically poor perception of manufactured housing, and (ii) the
fact that properties generate less tax revenue than conventional housing properties because the homes are treated as personal property (a benefit to the homeowner) rather than real property. Another factor that creates substantial barriers to entry
is the length of time between investment in a property’s development and the attainment of stabilized occupancy and the generation of revenues. The initial development of the infrastructure may take up to two or three years. Once a property is
ready for occupancy, it may be difficult to attract customers to an empty property. Substantial occupancy levels may take several years to achieve. 
  5 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Industry Consolidation: According to various industry reports, there are approximately 50,000 manufactured home properties and approximately
8,750 RV properties (excluding government owned properties) in North America. Most of these properties are not operated by large owner/operators, and of the RV properties approximately 1,300 contain 200 sites or more. The Company believes that this
relatively high degree of fragmentation provides the Company, as a national organization with experienced management and substantial financial resources, the opportunity to purchase additional properties as evidenced by the acquisitions during the
year ended December 31, 2011.   


 
•
 
 Customer Base: The Company believes that properties tend to achieve and maintain a stable rate of occupancy due to the following factors:
(i) customers typically own their own homes, (ii) properties tend to foster a sense of community as a result of amenities such as clubhouses and recreational and social activities, (iii) since moving a Site Set home from one property
to another involves substantial cost and effort, customers often sell their homes in-place (similar to site-built residential housing) with no interruption of rental payments to the Company. 
 


 
•
 
 Lifestyle Choice: According to the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association (“RVIA”), nearly one in ten U.S. vehicle-owning
households owns an RV and there are 8.9 million current RV owners. The 77 million people born from 1946 to 1964 or “baby boomers” make up the fastest growing segment of this market. According to U.S. Census figures, every day
10,000 Americans turn 50. The Company believes that this population segment, seeking an active lifestyle, will provide opportunities for future cash flow growth for the Company. Current RV owners, once finished with the more active RV lifestyle,
will often seek more permanent retirement or vacation establishments. Site Set housing has become an increasingly popular housing alternative for retirement, second-home, and “empty-nest” living. According to U.S. Census figures, the
baby-boom generation will constitute almost 17% of the U.S. population within the next 20 years. Among those individuals who are nearing retirement (age 46 to 64), approximately 47% plan on moving upon retirement. 
The Company believes that the housing choices in its Properties are especially attractive to such individuals throughout
this lifestyle cycle. The Company’s Properties offer an appealing amenity package, close proximity to local services, social activities, low maintenance and a secure environment. In fact, many of the Company’s Properties allow for this
cycle to occur within a single Property.   


 
•
 
 Construction Quality: Since 1976, all factory built housing has been required to meet stringent federal standards, resulting in significant
increases in quality. The Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (“HUD”) standards for Site Set housing construction quality are the only federal standards governing housing quality of any type in the United States. Site Set
homes produced since 1976 have received a “red and silver” government seal certifying that they were built in compliance with the federal code. The code regulates Site Set home design and construction, strength and durability, fire
resistance and energy efficiency, and the installation and performance of heating, plumbing, air conditioning, thermal and electrical systems. In newer homes, top grade lumber and dry wall materials are common. Also, manufacturers are required to
follow the same fire codes as builders of site-built structures. In addition, although Resort Cottages do not come under the same regulations, many of the manufacturers of Site Set homes also produce Resort Cottages with many of the same quality
standards.   


 
•
 
 Comparability to Site-Built Homes: The Site Set housing industry has experienced a trend towards multi-section homes. Many modern Site Set
homes are longer (up to 80 feet, compared to 50 feet in the 1960’s) and wider than earlier models. Many such homes have nine-foot ceilings or vaulted ceilings, fireplaces and as many as four bedrooms and closely resemble single-family
ranch-style site-built homes. At the Company’s Properties, there is an active resale market for these larger homes.   


 
•
 
 Second Home Demographics: According to 2011 National Association of Realtors (“NAR”) reports, sales of second homes in 2010
accounted for 27% of residential transactions, or 1.41 million second-home sales in 2010. There were approximately 7.9 million vacation homes in 2010. The typical vacation-home buyer is 49 years old and earned $99,500 in 2010. According to
2010 NAR reports, 
  6 


Table of Contents


 
 
approximately 32% of vacation homes were purchased in the south; 24% were purchased in the west; 21% were purchased in the northeast; and 20% were purchased in the Midwest. In looking ahead, NAR
believes that baby boomers are still in their peak earning years, and the leading edge of their generation is approaching retirement. As they continue to have the financial wherewithal to purchase a second home as a vacation property, investment
opportunity, or perhaps as a retirement retreat, those baby boomers will continue to drive the market for second homes. The Company believes it is likely that over the next decade it will continue to see historically high levels of second-home
sales, and resort homes and cottages in its Properties will continue to provide a viable second-home alternative to site-built homes.  Notwithstanding the Company’s belief that the industry information highlighted above provides the Company with significant long-term growth opportunities, its short-term growth opportunities could be
disrupted by the following:   


 
•
 
 Shipments—According to statistics compiled by the U.S. Census Bureau, shipments of new manufactured homes declined from 2005 through
2009. Shipments for 2010 as compared to 2009 were flat. Although new manufactured home shipments continue to be below historical levels, shipments for the first eleven months in 2011 increased over 1% to 47,800 units as compared to shipments for the
first eleven months in 2010 of 47,300 units. According to the RVIA, wholesale shipments of RVs increased 4.1% in 2011 to 252,300 units as compared to 2010, which continued a positive trend in RV shipments that started in late 2009. Certain industry
experts have predicted that 2012 RV shipments will decrease 4.6%, as compared to 2011, to 240,600.    

  


 
(1) 
 Source: Institute for Building Technology and Safety 
  7 


Table of Contents


 
(2) 
 Source: RVIA   


 
•
 
 Sales—Retail sales of RVs increased almost 4% to 182,400 for the first 11 months of 2011, as compared to 175,600 the first 11 months of
2010. A total of 183,200 RVs were sold during the year ended December 31, 2010, representing an increase of almost 8% over the prior year. The Company believes that consumers remain concerned about the current economy, and by prospects that the
economy might remain sluggish in the years ahead. However, the enduring appeal of the RV lifestyle has translated into continued strength in RV sales despite the economic turmoil. According to RVIA, RV ownership has reached record levels:
8.9 million American households now own an RV, the highest level ever recorded, which constitutes an increase of 16% since 2001 and 64% since 1980. RV sales could continue to benefit as aging baby-boomers continue to enter the age range in
which RV ownership is highest.   


 
•
 
 Availability of financing—The current credit crisis has made it difficult for manufactured home and RV manufacturers to obtain floor
plan financing and for potential customers to obtain loans for manufactured home or RV purchases. Further, legislation enacted in 2010 known as the SAFE Act (Safe Mortgage Licensing Act) requires community owners interested in financing customer
purchases of manufactured homes to register as a mortgage loan originator in states in which they engage in such financing. These requirements are generally more burdensome for lenders financing the purchase of manufactured homes than for lenders
financing the purchase of site-built homes. In addition, as compared to financing available to owners and purchasers of site-built single family homes, available financing for a manufactured home involves higher down payments, higher FICO scores,
higher interest rates and shorter maturity. Certain government stimulus packages have also provided government guarantees for site-built single family home loans, thereby increasing the supply of financing for that market.
 Please see the Company’s risk factors, financial statements and related notes contained in this Form
10-K for more detailed information.  Available Information 
The Company files reports electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may
read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy information and statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company maintains an
Internet site with information about the Company and hyperlinks to its filings with the SEC at http://www.equitylifestyle.com, free of charge. Requests for copies of the Company’s filings with the SEC and other investor inquiries
should be directed to:  Investor Relations Department 
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Two North Riverside Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 60606 
Phone: 1-800-247-5279 
e-mail: investor_relations@equitylifestyle.com 
 


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  The Company’s
Performance and Common Stock Value Are Subject to Risks Associated With the Real Estate Industry.  Adverse Economic
Conditions and Other Factors Could Adversely Affect the Value of the Company’s Properties and the Company’s Cash Flow. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of the Company’s Properties. These
factors include:   


 
•
 
 changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; 
  8 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 local conditions such as an oversupply of lifestyle-oriented properties or a reduction in demand for lifestyle-oriented properties in the area, the
attractiveness of the Company’s Properties to customers, competition from manufactured home communities and other lifestyle-oriented properties and alternative forms of housing (such as apartment buildings and site-built single family homes);
  


 
•
 
 the ability of manufactured home and RV manufacturers to adapt to changes in the economic climate and the availability of units from these
manufacturers;   


 
•
 
 the ability of the Company’s potential customers to sell or lease their existing site-built residences in order to purchase resort homes or
cottages in the Company’s Properties, and heightened price sensitivity for seasonal and second homebuyers;   


 
•
 
 the possible reduced ability of the Company’s potential customers to obtain financing on the purchase of resort homes, resort cottages or RVs;
  


 
•
 
 performance of chattel loans purchased in connection with the Acquisition (see Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the Acquisition);   


 
•
 
 government stimulus intended to primarily benefit purchasers of site-built housing; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in the availability and price of gasoline, especially for the Company’s transient customers; 
 


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to collect rent, annual payments and principal and interest from customers and pay or control maintenance, insurance and
other operating costs (including real estate taxes), which could increase over time;   


 
•
 
 the failure of the Company’s assets to generate income sufficient to pay its expenses, service its debt and maintain its Properties, which may
adversely affect the Company’s ability to make expected distributions to its stockholders;   


 
•
 
 the Company’s inability to meet mortgage payments on any Property that is mortgaged, in which case the lender could foreclose on the mortgage
and take the Property;   


 
•
 
 interest rate levels and the availability of financing, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition;
  


 
•
 
 changes in laws and governmental regulations (including rent control laws and regulations governing usage, zoning and taxes), which may adversely
affect the Company’s financial condition;   


 
•
 
 poor weather, especially on holiday weekends in the summer, which could reduce the economic performance of the Company’s Northern resort
Properties; and   


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to sell new or upgraded right-to-use contracts and to retain customers who have previously purchased a right-to-use
contract.  New Acquisitions May Fail to Perform as Expected and Competition for Acquisitions May Result
in Increased Prices for Properties. The Company intends to continue to acquire properties. Newly acquired Properties may fail to perform as expected. The Company may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards
established for its intended market position. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management attention. Additionally, the Company expects that other real estate investors with significant
capital will compete with it for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include publicly traded REITs, private REITs and other types of investors. Such competition increases prices for properties. The Company expects to acquire
properties with cash from secured or unsecured financings, proceeds from offerings of equity or debt, undistributed funds from operations and sales of investments. The Company may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make
suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms.  The intended benefits of the Company’s acquisition of a portfolio
of 74 manufactured home communities and one RV resort during the year ended December 31, 2011 may not be realized, which could have a negative impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock. 
  9 


Table of Contents
The acquisition poses risks for our ongoing operations, including that: 
 


 
•
 
 senior management’s attention may be diverted from the management of daily operations to the integration of the acquisition portfolio;
  


 
•
 
 costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities; 
 


 
•
 
 the acquisition portfolio may not perform as well as the Company anticipates; and 
 


 
•
 
 unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating the acquisition portfolio into the Company’s portfolio. 
As a result of the foregoing, the Company cannot assure you that these acquisitions will be accretive to it in the near term or at all.
Furthermore, if the Company fails to realize the intended benefits of the acquisition, the market price of its common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects those benefits. 
Because Real Estate Investments Are Illiquid, The Company May Not be Able to Sell Properties When Appropriate. Real estate
investments generally cannot be sold quickly. The Company may not be able to vary its portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions, forcing the Company to accept lower than market value. This inability to respond promptly to
changes in the performance of the Company’s investments could adversely affect its financial condition and ability to service debt and make distributions to its stockholders. 
Some Potential Losses Are Not Covered by Insurance. The Company carries comprehensive insurance coverage for losses resulting from
property damage, environmental, liability claims and business interruption on all of its Properties. In addition the Company carries liability coverage for other activities not specifically related to property operations. These coverages include,
but are not limited to, Directors & Officers liability, Employer Practices liability and Fiduciary liability. The Company believes that the policy specifications and coverage limits of these policies should be adequate and appropriate.
There are, however, certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of coverage limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has
invested in a Property or the anticipated future revenue from a Property. In such an event, the Company might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the Property. 
The Company’s current property and casualty insurance policies, which it plans to renew, expire on April 1, 2012. The Company
has a $100 million loss limit with respect to its all-risk property insurance program including named windstorms, which include, for example, hurricanes. This loss limit is subject to additional sub-limits as set forth in the policy form, including,
among others, a $25 million loss limit for an earthquake in California. Policy deductibles primarily range from a $125,000 minimum to 5% per unit of insurance for most catastrophic events. A deductible indicates ELS’ maximum exposure,
subject to policy sub-limits, in the event of a loss.  There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. government,
Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies instituted for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect, and the Company’s business may not benefit from
or may be adversely impacted by these actions, and further government or market developments could adversely impact the Company. In response to market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators implemented a number of mechanisms designed
to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers,
implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and temporary prohibitions on short sales of certain financial institution securities. Numerous actions have been taken by the Federal Reserve,
Congress, U.S. Treasury, SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that followed the sub-prime crisis that commenced in 2007. It is not clear at this time what long-term impact the liquidity and funding initiatives of the Federal
Reserve and other agencies that have been previously announced, and any additional programs that may be initiated in the future, will have on the 
  10 


Table of Contents

financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, or on the U.S. banking and financial industries and the broader U.S. and
global economies. Specifically, the Company believes that programs intended to provide relief to current or potential site-built or stick-built single family homeowners, and not purchasers of Site-Set homes who lease the underlying land and
RV’s, negatively impacts its business.  Further, the overall effects of the legislative and regulatory
efforts on the financial markets is uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. Should these legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, the Company’s business,
financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, the Company may
need to modify its strategies, businesses or operations, and the Company may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. It
is uncertain what effects recently enacted or future legislation or regulatory initiatives will have on us. 
Given the volatile nature of the current market disruption and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or
reverse the disruption, the Company may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments, including regulatory developments and trends in new products and services, in the current or future
environment. The Company’s failure to do so could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.  The Company’s 8.034% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock Has Not Been Rated. The Company has not sought to obtain a rating for its 8.034% Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”). No assurance can be given, however, that one or more rating agencies might not independently determine to issue such a rating or that such a rating, if issued, would not
adversely affect the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the Company may elect in the future to obtain a rating of its Series A Preferred Stock, which could adversely affect the market price of its Series A
Preferred Stock. Ratings only reflect the views of the rating agency or agencies issuing the ratings and such ratings could be revised downward, placed on a watch list or withdrawn entirely at the discretion of the issuing rating agency if in its
judgment circumstances so warrant. Any such downward revision, placing on a watch list or withdrawal of a rating could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock. 
Adverse changes in general economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s business. 
The Company’s success is dependent upon economic conditions in the U.S. generally and in the geographic areas in which a substantial
number of the Company’s Properties are located. Adverse changes in national economic conditions and in the economic conditions of the regions in which the Company conducts substantial business may have an adverse effect on the real estate
values of the Company’s Properties, its financial performance and the market price of its common stock.  In a recession
or under other adverse economic conditions, non-earning assets and write-downs are likely to increase as debtors fail to meet their payment obligations. Although the Company maintains reserves for credit losses and an allowance for doubtful accounts
in amounts that it believes should be sufficient to provide adequate protection against potential write-downs in its portfolio, these amounts could prove to be insufficient.  Campground Membership Properties Laws and Regulations Could Adversely Affect the Value of Certain Properties and the Company’s Cash Flow. 
Many of the states in which the Company does business have laws regulating right-to-use or campground membership sales. These laws
generally require comprehensive disclosure to prospective purchasers, and usually give purchasers the right to rescind their purchase between three to five days after the date of sale. Some states

  11 


Table of Contents

have laws requiring the Company to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market. The Company is subject to changes, from time to time, in the application or interpretation of such
laws that can affect its business or the rights of its members.  In some states, including California, Oregon and Washington,
laws place limitations on the ability of the owner of a campground property to close the property unless the customers at the property receive access to a comparable property. The impact of the rights of customers under these laws is uncertain and
could adversely affect the availability or timing of sale opportunities or the ability of the Company to realize recoveries from Property sales.  The government authorities regulating the Company’s activities have broad discretionary power to enforce and interpret the statutes and regulations that they administer, including the power to enjoin
or suspend sales activities, require or restrict construction of additional facilities and revoke licenses and permits relating to business activities. The Company monitors its sales and marketing programs and debt collection activities to control
practices that might violate consumer protection laws and regulations or give rise to consumer complaints.  Certain consumer
rights and defenses that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may affect the Company’s portfolio of contracts receivable. Examples of such laws include state and federal consumer credit and truth-in-lending laws requiring the disclosure of
finance charges, and usury and retail installment sales laws regulating permissible finance charges.  In certain states, as a
result of government regulations and provisions in certain of the right-to-use or campground membership agreements, the Company is prohibited from selling more than ten memberships per site. At the present time, these restrictions do not preclude
the Company from selling memberships in any state. However, these restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to utilize Properties for public usage and/or the Company’s ability to convert sites to more profitable or predictable uses,
such as annual rentals.  Debt Financing, Financial Covenants and Degree of Leverage Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Economic
Performance.  Scheduled Debt Payments Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Condition. The
Company’s business is subject to risks normally associated with debt financing. The total principal amount of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness was approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2011. The Company’s
substantial indebtedness and the cash flow associated with serving its indebtedness could have important consequences, including the risks that:   


 
•
 
 the Company’s cash flow could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet required payments of principal and interest;
  


 
•
 
 the Company might be required to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay its indebtedness, thereby reducing the
availability of its cash flow to fund the implementation of its business strategy, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; 
 


 
•
 
 the Company’s debt service obligations could limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in
which it operates;   


 
•
 
 the Company may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness (which in virtually all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity)
and, if it can, the terms of such refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 if principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity
capital, the Company’s cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt; and 
  12 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate
loans) result in higher interest rates, increased interest expense would adversely affect cash flow and the Company’s ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. 
Ability to obtain mortgage financing or to refinance maturing mortgages may adversely affect the Company’s financial
condition. Lenders demands on borrowers as to the quality of the collateral and related cash flows may make it challenging to secure financing at all or on attractive terms. If financing proceeds are no longer available for any reason or if
terms are no longer attractive, these factors may adversely affect cash flow and the Company’s ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders.  Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Condition. If a Property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness, and the Company is unable to meet mortgage payments,
the mortgagee could foreclose on the Property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. The mortgages on the Company’s Properties contain customary negative covenants, which among other things limit the Company’s ability, without the
prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the Property and to discontinue insurance coverage. In addition, the Company’s unsecured credit facilities contain certain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on the
Company’s ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt-to-assets ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Foreclosure on mortgaged Properties or an inability to refinance existing
indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.  The
Company’s Degree of Leverage Could Limit Its Ability to Obtain Additional Financing. The Company’s debt-to-market-capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus the market value of the outstanding common stock and
Units held by parties other than the Company) was approximately 43% as of December 31, 2011. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to obtain
additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes, and makes the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. 
The Company may be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with its substantial leverage.
Despite the Company’s current indebtedness levels, it may still be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. If new debt is added to the Company’s current debt levels, an even greater portion of its cash flow will be needed
to satisfy its debt service obligations. As a result, the related risks that we now face could intensify and increase the risk of a default on the Company’s indebtedness.  The Company Depends on Its Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Distributions. 
Substantially all of the Company’s assets are indirectly held through the Operating Partnership. As a result, the Company has no
source of operating cash flow other than from distributions from the Operating Partnership. The Company’s ability to pay dividends to holders of common stock and Series A Preferred Stock depends on the Operating Partnership’s ability first
to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and then to make distributions to MHC Trust and common Unit holders (in the case of common stock distributions). Similarly, MHC Trust must satisfy its obligations to its creditors (preferred stockholders
in the case of common stock distributions) before making common stock or preferred stock distributions to the Company.  Stockholders’
Ability to Effect Changes of Control of the Company is Limited.  Provisions of the Company’s Charter and Bylaws
Could Inhibit Changes of Control. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or other transactions that could provide its stockholders with a premium over the
then-prevailing market price of their common stock or Series A Preferred Stock or which might otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders. These include the 
  13 


Table of Contents

Ownership Limit described below. Also, any future series of preferred stock may have certain voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction that might
involve a premium price or otherwise be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders.  Maryland Law Imposes Certain
Limitations on Changes of Control. Certain provisions of Maryland law prohibit “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of
outstanding common stock, or with an affiliate of the Company who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock (an “Interested
Stockholder”), or with an affiliate of an Interested Stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder. After the five-year period, a business
combination with an Interested Stockholder must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes unless, among other conditions, the Company’s common stockholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in
cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Stockholder for its shares of common stock. The Board of Directors has exempted from these provisions under the Maryland law any business combination with Samuel Zell, who is the
Chairman of the Board of the Company, certain holders of Units who received them at the time of the Company’s initial public offering, the General Motors Hourly Rate Employees Pension Trust and the General Motors Salaried Employees Pension
Trust, and the Company’s officers who acquired common stock at the time the Company was formed and each and every affiliate of theirs.  The Company Has a Stock Ownership Limit for REIT Tax Purposes. To remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the Company’s outstanding
shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs) at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To facilitate maintenance of the
Company’s REIT qualification, the Company’s charter, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits Beneficial Ownership (as defined in the Company’s charter) by any single stockholder of more than 5% (in value or number of shares,
whichever is more restrictive) of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. The Company refers to this as the “Ownership Limit.” Within certain limits, the Company’s charter permits the Board of Directors to increase the Ownership
Limit with respect to any class or series of stock. The Board of Directors, upon receipt of a ruling from the IRS, opinion of counsel, or other evidence satisfactory to the Board of Directors and upon 15 days prior written notice of a proposed
transfer which, if consummated, would result in the transferee owning shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, and upon such other conditions as the Board of Directors may direct, may exempt a stockholder from the Ownership Limit. Absent any such
exemption, capital stock acquired or held in violation of the Ownership Limit will be transferred by operation of law to the Company as trustee for the benefit of the person to whom such capital stock is ultimately transferred, and the
stockholder’s rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. Such stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the capital stock transferred to the Company as trustee, the lesser of (i) the
price paid for the capital stock or, if the owner did not pay for the capital stock (for example, in the case of a gift, devise on other such transaction), the market price of the capital stock on the date of the event causing the capital stock to
be transferred to the Company as trustee or (ii) the amount realized from such sale. A transfer of capital stock may be void if it causes a person to violate the Ownership Limit. The Ownership Limit could delay or prevent a change in control of
the Company and, therefore, could adversely affect its stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their common stock or adversely affect the best interest of the Company’s stockholders. 
Conflicts of Interest Could Influence the Company’s Decisions.  Certain Stockholders Could Exercise Influence in a Manner Inconsistent With the Stockholders’ Best Interests. As of December 31, 2011, Mr. Samuel Zell and certain affiliated holders
beneficially owned approximately 8.8% of the Company’s outstanding common stock (in each case including common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options and the exchange of Units). Mr. Zell is the chairman of the Company’s
Board of Directors. Accordingly, Mr. Zell has significant influence on the Company’s management and operation. Such influence 
  14 


Table of Contents

could be exercised in a manner that is inconsistent with the interests of other stockholders.  Mr. Zell and His Affiliates Continue to be Involved in Other Investment Activities. Mr. Zell and his affiliates have a broad and varied range of investment interests, including interests
in other real estate investment companies involved in other forms of housing, including multifamily housing. Mr. Zell and his affiliates may acquire interests in other companies. Mr. Zell may not be able to control whether any such company
competes with the Company. Consequently, Mr. Zell’s continued involvement in other investment activities could result in competition to the Company as well as management decisions which might not reflect the interests of the Company’s
stockholders.  Members of Management May Have a Conflict of Interest Over Whether To Enforce Terms of
Mr. McAdams’s Employment and Noncompetition Agreement. Mr. McAdams was the Company’s President until January 31, 2011 and had an employment and noncompetition agreement with the Company that expired on December 31,
2010. For the most part these restrictions apply to him both during his employment and for two years thereafter. Mr. McAdams is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with the Company’s business through the solicitation
of the Company’s employees or customers or otherwise. To the extent that the Company chooses to enforce its rights under any of these agreements, it may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief,
less vigorously than the Company otherwise might because of its desire to maintain its ongoing relationship with Mr. McAdams. Additionally, the non-competition provisions of his agreement, despite being limited in scope and duration, could be
difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over it in the future. (See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.) 
Risk of Eminent Domain and Tenant Litigation.  The Company owns Properties in certain areas of the country where real estate values have increased faster than rental rates in its Properties either because of locally imposed rent control or long term
leases. In such areas, the Company has learned that certain local government entities have investigated the possibility of seeking to take the Company’s Properties by eminent domain at values below the value of the underlying land. While no
such eminent domain proceeding has been commenced, and the Company would exercise all of its rights in connection with any such proceeding, successful condemnation proceedings by municipalities could adversely affect its financial condition.
Moreover, certain of its Properties located in California are subject to rent control ordinances, some of which not only severely restrict ongoing rent increases but also prohibit the Company from increasing rents upon turnover. Such regulations
allow customers to sell their homes for a premium representing the value of the future discounted rent-controlled rents. As part of the Company’s effort to realize the value of its Properties subject to rent control, the Company has initiated
lawsuits against several municipalities in California. In response to the Company’s efforts, tenant groups have filed lawsuits against the Company seeking not only to limit rent increases, but to be awarded large damage awards. If the Company
is unsuccessful in its efforts to challenge rent control ordinances, it is likely that the Company will not be able to charge rents that reflect the intrinsic value of the affected Properties. Finally, tenant groups in non-rent controlled markets
have also attempted to use litigation as a means of protecting themselves from rent increases reflecting the rental value of the affected Properties. An unfavorable outcome in the tenant group lawsuits could have an adverse impact on the
Company’s financial condition.  Environmental and Utility-Related Problems Are Possible and Can be Costly. 
Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or
operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation
and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants.
Even if more than one person 
  15 


Table of Contents

may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue
the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. 
Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. Such laws require that owners or operators of property
containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed
during renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for
personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers.  Utility-related laws and regulations also govern the provision
of utility services and operations of water and wastewater treatment facilities. Such laws regulate, for example, how and to what extent owners or operators of property can charge renters for provision of, for example, electricity, and whether and
to what extent such utility services can be charged separately from the base rent. Such laws also regulate the operations and performance of water treatment facilities and wastewater treatment facilities. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on
real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements.  The Company has a Significant Concentration of Properties in
Florida and California, and Natural Disasters or Other Catastrophic Events in These or Other States Could Adversely Affect the Value of Its Properties and the Its Cash Flow. 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned or had an ownership interest in 382 Properties located in 32 states and British Columbia,
including 119 Properties located in Florida and 49 Properties located in California. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in any of these areas may cause a sudden decrease in the value of the Company’s Properties.
While the Company has obtained insurance policies providing certain coverage against damage from fire, flood, property damage, earthquake, wind storm and business interruption, these insurance policies contain coverage limits, limits on covered
property and various deductible amounts that the Company must pay before insurance proceeds are available. Such insurance may therefore be insufficient to restore the Company’s economic position with respect to damage or destruction to its
Properties caused by such occurrences. Moreover, each of these coverages must be renewed every year and there is the possibility that all or some of the coverages may not be available at a reasonable cost. In addition, in the event of such a natural
disaster or other catastrophic event, the process of obtaining reimbursement for covered losses, including the lag between expenditures incurred by the Company and reimbursements received from the insurance providers, could adversely affect the
Company’s economic performance.  Market Interest Rates May Have an Effect on the Value of the Company’s Common Stock.
 One of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the
distribution rates with respect to such shares (as a percentage of the price of such shares) relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher
interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for the Company to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase its borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause
the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities to go down.  The Company Is Dependent on External Sources of Capital.
 To qualify as a REIT, the Company must distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income
(determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain). In addition, the Company intends to distribute all or substantially all of its net income so that it will generally not be

  16 


Table of Contents

subject to U.S. federal income tax on its earnings. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that the Company will be able to fund all future capital needs, including for
acquisitions, from income from operations. The Company therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of debt and equity capital financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The Company’s access to third-party
sources of capital depends on a number of things, including conditions in the capital markets generally and the market’s perception of its growth potential and its current and potential future earnings. It may be difficult for the Company to
meet one or more of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, including but not limited to its distribution requirement. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders’ interests, and additional
debt financing may substantially increase the Company’s leverage.  The Company’s Qualification as a REIT is Dependent on
Compliance With U.S. Federal Income Tax Requirements.  The Company believes it has been organized and operated in a manner
so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT, and it intends to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, however, is governed by highly technical
and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. In connection with certain transactions, the Company has received, and relied upon, advice of counsel as to the impact of such
transactions on its qualification as a REIT. The Company’s qualification as a REIT requires analysis of various facts and circumstances that may not be entirely within its control, and it cannot provide any assurance that the Internal Revenue
Service (the “IRS”) will agree with its analysis or the analysis of its tax counsel. In particular, the proper federal income tax treatment of right-to-use membership contracts is uncertain and there is no assurance that the IRS will agree
with the Company’s treatment of such contracts. If the IRS were to disagree with the Company’s analysis or its tax counsel’s analysis of various facts and circumstances, the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT could be
adversely affected. Such matters could affect the Company’s qualification as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the
requirements for qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT.  If, with
respect to any taxable year, the Company failed to maintain the Company’s qualification as a REIT (and if specified relief provisions under the Code were not applicable to such disqualification), it could not deduct distributions to
stockholders in computing its net taxable income and it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its net taxable income at regular corporate rates. Any U.S. federal income tax payable could include applicable alternative minimum tax. If the
Company had to pay U.S. federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to stockholders and pay indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and the Company would no longer be required to distribute money to
stockholders. In addition, the Company would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless it was entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions.
Although the Company currently intends to operate in a manner designed to allow the Company to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause it to revoke the REIT election. 
Interpretation of and Changes to Accounting Policies and Standards Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Reported Financial Results.
 The Company’s Accounting Policies and Methods Are the Basis on Which It Reports Its Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, and They May Require Management to Make Estimates About Matters that Are Inherently Uncertain. The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to the manner in which it records and reports its financial
condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect
management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or
more alternatives, any of which might be 
  17 


Table of Contents

reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. 
Changes in Accounting Standards Could Adversely Affect The Company’s Reported Financial Results. The bodies that set
accounting standards for public companies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and others, periodically change or revise existing interpretations of the accounting and reporting standards that govern the
way that the Company reports its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact the Company’s reported financial results. In some cases, the Company could be
required to apply a new or revised accounting standard, or a revised interpretation of an accounting standard, retroactively, which could have a negative impact on reported results or result in the restatement of the Company’s financial
statements for prior periods.  The Company’s Accounting Policies for the Entering Right-To-Use Contracts Will Result
in a Substantial Deferral of Revenue in its Financial Results. Beginning August 14, 2008, the Company began entering right-to-use contracts. Customers who enter upgraded right-to-use contracts are generally required to make an upfront
nonrefundable payment to the Company. The Company incurs significant selling and marketing expenses to originate the right-to-use contracts, and the majority of expenses must be expensed in the period incurred, while the related revenues and
commissions are generally deferred and recognized over the expected life of the contract, which is estimated based upon historical attrition rates. The expected life of a right-to-use contract is currently estimated to be between one and 31 years.
As a result, the Company may incur a loss from entering right-to-use contracts, build up a substantial deferred revenue liability balance, and recognize substantial non-cash revenue in the years subsequent to originally entering the contracts. This
accounting may make it difficult for investors to interpret the financial results from the entry of right-to-use contracts. In 2008, the Company submitted correspondence to the Office of the Chief Accountant at the SEC describing the right-to-use
contracts and subsequently discussed the revenue recognition policy with respect to the contracts with the SEC. The SEC does not object to the Company’s application of the Codification Topic “Revenue Recognition” (“FASB ASC
605”) with respect to the deferral of the upfront nonrefundable payments received from the entry of right-to-use contracts. (See Note 2(n) in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for the Company’s
revenue recognition policy.)   


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments  None.
  


Item 2.
Properties  General 
The Company’s Properties provide attractive amenities and common facilities that create a comfortable and attractive home for its
customers, with most offering a clubhouse, a swimming pool, laundry facilities and cable television service. Many also offer additional amenities such as sauna/whirlpool spas, golf courses, tennis, shuffleboard and basketball courts, exercise rooms
and various social activities such as concerts. Since most of the Company’s customers generally rent its sites on a long-term basis, it is their responsibility to maintain their homes and the surrounding area. It is the Company’s role to
ensure that customers comply with its Property policies and to provide maintenance of the common areas, facilities and amenities. The Company holds periodic meetings with its Property management personnel for training and implementation of its
strategies. The Properties historically have had, and the Company believes they will continue to have, low turnover and high occupancy rates. 
Property Portfolio  As
of December 31, 2011, the Company owned or had an ownership interest in a portfolio of 382 Properties located throughout the United States and British Columbia containing 141,132 residential sites. 
  18 


Table of Contents
The distribution of the Company’s Properties throughout the United States reflects its
belief that geographic diversification helps to insulate the portfolio from regional economic influences. The Company intends to target new acquisitions in or near markets where its Properties are located and will also consider acquisitions of
Properties outside such markets. (Refer to Note 2(c) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.)  Bay Indies, located in Venice, Florida, and Viewpoint, located in Mesa, Arizona, the Company’s two largest properties as determined by property operating revenues, each accounted for approximately
2.0% of its total property operating revenues, including deferrals, for the year ended December 31, 2011.  The following
table sets forth certain information relating to the Properties the Company owned as of December 31, 2011, categorized according to major markets and excluding Properties owned through joint ventures. 
 








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Florida
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 East Coast:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Sunshine Key
 
38801 Overseas Hwy
 
Big Pine Key
 
FL
 
33043
 
RV
 
54
 

 

 
409
 
61
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
9,289
  
 
$
9,735
  

 Cheron Village (a)
 
13222 SW 9th Court
 
Davie
 
FL
 
33325
 
MH
 
30
 

 

 
202
 
202
 
 
93.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
7,828
  
 
 
—  
  

 Carriage Cove
 
Five Carriage Cove Way
 
Daytona Beach
 
FL
 
32119
 
MH
 
59
 

 

 
418
 
418
 
 
88.8
% 
 
 
91.6
% 
 
$
5,932
  
 
$
5,571
  

 Coquina Crossing
 
4536 Coquina Crossing Dr.
 
Elkton
 
FL
 
32033
 
MH
 
316
 
26
 
145
 
566
 
566
 
 
93.6
% 
 
 
93.3
% 
 
$
6,015
  
 
$
5,747
  

 Bulow Plantation
 
3165 Old Kings Road South
 
Flagler Beach
 
FL
 
32136
 
MH
 
323
 
181
 
722
 
276
 
276
 
 
98.2
% 
 
 
98.2
% 
 
$
6,012
  
 
$
5,808
  

 Bulow RV
 
3345 Old Kings Road South
 
Flagler Beach
 
FL
 
32136
 
RV
 
(f)
 

 

 
352
 
83
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,890
  
 
$
4,854
  

 Carefree Cove
 
3273 N.W. 37th St
 
Ft. Lauderdale
 
FL
 
33309
 
MH
 
20
 

 

 
164
 
164
 
 
93.9
% 
 
 
93.9
% 
 
$
6,773
  
 
$
6,568
  

 Park City West
 
10550 W. State Road 84
 
Ft. Lauderdale
 
FL
 
33324
 
MH
 
60
 

 

 
363
 
363
 
 
94.2
% 
 
 
91.7
% 
 
$
6,424
  
 
$
6,205
  

 Sunshine Holiday MH
 
2802 W. Oakland Park Blvd.
 
Ft. Lauderdale
 
FL
 
33311
 
MH
 
32
 

 

 
270
 
270
 
 
86.3
% 
 
 
86.9
% 
 
$
6,316
  
 
$
6,097
  

 Sunshine Holiday RV
 
2802 W. Oakland Park Blvd.
 
Ft. Lauderdale
 
FL
 
33311
 
RV
 
(f)
 

 

 
130
 
37
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,814
  
 
$
5,874
  

 Lake Worth Village (a)
 
4041 Roberts Way
 
Lake Worth
 
FL
 
33463
 
MH
 
117
 

 

 
823
 
823
 
 
78.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,824
  
 
 
—  
  

 Maralago Cay
 
6280 S. Ash Lane
 
Lantana
 
FL
 
33462
 
MH
 
102
 
5
 

 
603
 
603
 
 
93.0
% 
 
 
91.0
% 
 
$
7,623
  
 
$
7,601
  

 Coral Cay
 
2801 NW 62nd Avenue
 
Margate
 
FL
 
33063
 
MH
 
121
 

 

 
819
 
819
 
 
91.3
% 
 
 
89.1
% 
 
$
6,579
  
 
$
6,312
  

 Lakewood Village
 
3171 Hanson Avenue
 
Melbourne
 
FL
 
32901
 
MH
 
68
 

 

 
349
 
349
 
 
86.2
% 
 
 
86.5
% 
 
$
5,874
  
 
$
5,919
  

 Holiday Village
 
1335 Fleming Ave Box 228
 
Ormond Beach
 
FL
 
32174
 
MH
 
43
 

 

 
301
 
301
 
 
88.0
% 
 
 
87.7
% 
 
$
5,137
  
 
$
4,755
  

 Sunshine Holiday
 
1701 North US Hwy 1
 
Ormond Beach
 
FL
 
32174
 
RV
 
69
 

 

 
349
 
134
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,699
  
 
$
4,854
  

 The Meadows, FL
 
2555 PGA Boulevard
 
Palm Beach Gardens
 
FL
 
33410
 
MH
 
55
 

 

 
379
 
379
 
 
82.8
% 
 
 
85.0
% 
 
$
7,047
  
 
$
6,863
  

 Breezy Hill RV
 
800 NE 48th Street
 
Pompano Beach
 
FL
 
33064
 
RV
 
52
 

 

 
762
 
368
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
6,216
  
 
$
6,265
  

 Highland Wood RV
 
900 NE 48th Street
 
Pompano Beach
 
FL
 
33064
 
RV
 
15
 

 

 
148
 
22
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,432
  
 
$
5,301
  

 Lighthouse Pointe
 
155 Spring Drive
 
Port Orange
 
FL
 
32129
 
MH
 
64
 

 

 
433
 
433
 
 
85.7
% 
 
 
85.9
% 
 
$
5,237
  
 
$
5,054
  

 Pickwick
 
4500 S. Clyde Morris Blvd
 
Port Orange
 
FL
 
32119
 
MH
 
84
 
4
 

 
432
 
432
 
 
99.8
% 
 
 
99.8
% 
 
$
5,573
  
 
$
5,355
  

 Indian Oaks
 
780 Barnes Boulevard
 
Rockledge
 
FL
 
32955
 
MH
 
38
 

 

 
208
 
208
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,535
  
 
$
4,465
  

 Countryside at Vero Beach
 
8775 20th Street
 
Vero Beach
 
FL
 
32966
 
MH
 
125
 

 

 
644
 
644
 
 
88.7
% 
 
 
89.6
% 
 
$
5,695
  
 
$
5,583
  

 Heritage Plantation
 
1101 Ranch Road
 
Vero Beach
 
FL
 
32966
 
MH
 
64
 

 

 
437
 
437
 
 
81.7
% 
 
 
82.8
% 
 
$
5,762
  
 
$
5,698
  

 Holiday Village, FL
 
1000 S.W. 27th Avenue
 
Vero Beach
 
FL
 
32968
 
MH
 
20
 

 

 
128
 
128
 
 
5.5
% 
 
 
9.4
% 
 
$
3,737
  
 
$
3,996
  

 Sunshine Travel
 
9455 108th Avenue
 
Vero Beach
 
FL
 
32967
 
RV
 
30
 
6
 
48
 
300
 
138
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,003
  
 
$
4,848
  

 Heron Cay (a)
 
1400 90th Avenue
 
Vero Beach
 
FL
 
32966
 
MH
 
130
 

 

 
589
 
589
 
 
84.9
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,717
  
 
 
—  
  

 Vero Palm (a)
 
1408 82nd Avenue
 
Vero Beach
 
FL
 
32966
 
MH
 
64
 

 

 
285
 
285
 
 
83.2
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,259
  
 
 
—  
  

 Village Green (a)
 
7300 20th Street
 
Vero Beach
 
FL
 
32966
 
MH
 
174
 

 

 
781
 
781
 
 
83.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,285
  
 
 
—  
  

 Palm Beach Colony (a)
 
2000 N. Congress Avenue
 
West Palm Beach
 
FL
 
33409
 
MH
 
48
 

 

 
284
 
284
 
 
88.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,280
  
 
 
—  
  
  19 


Table of Contents








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Central:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Clover Leaf Farms (a)
 
900 N. Broad Street
 
Brooksville
 
FL
 
34601
 
MH
 
227
 

 
100
 
779
 
779
 
 
96.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,200
  
 
 
—  
  

 Clover Leaf Forest (a)
 
910 N. Broad Street
 
Brooksville
 
FL
 
34601
 
RV
 
30
 

 

 
277
 

 



 
 
—  
  
 



 
 
—  
  

 Clerbrook
 
20005 U.S. Highway 27
 
Clermont
 
FL
 
34711
 
RV
 
288
 

 

 
1,255
 
465
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,392
  
 
$
4,352
  

 Lake Magic
 
9600 Hwy 192 West
 
Clermont
 
FL
 
34714
 
RV
 
69
 

 

 
471
 
127
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,235
  
 
$
4,106
  

 Orange Lake (a)
 
15840 SR 50 Lot 32
 
Clermont
 
FL
 
34711
 
MH
 
38
 

 

 
242
 
242
 
 
95.5
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,554
  
 
 
—  
  

 Orlando
 
2110 US Highway 27 S
 
Clermont
 
FL
 
34714
 
RV
 
270
 
30
 
136
 
850
 
111
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,358
  
 
$
3,358
  

 Haselton Village (a)
 
14 Coral Street
 
Eustis
 
FL
 
32726
 
MH
 
52
 

 

 
291
 
291
 
 
98.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
3,505
  
 
 
—  
  

 Southern Palms
 
One Avocado Lane
 
Eustis
 
FL
 
32726
 
RV
 
120
 

 

 
950
 
354
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,363
  
 
$
4,267
  

 Lakeside Terrace (a)
 
24 Sunrise Lane
 
Fruitland Park
 
FL
 
34731
 
MH
 
39
 

 

 
241
 
241
 
 
98.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
3,666
  
 
 
—  
  

 Grand Island
 
13310 Sea Breeze Lane
 
Grand Island
 
FL
 
32735
 
MH
 
35
 

 

 
362
 
362
 
 
63.3
% 
 
 
60.2
% 
 
$
5,226
  
 
$
5,059
  

 Sherwood Forest
 
5302 W. Irlo Bronson Hwy
 
Kissimmee
 
FL
 
34746
 
MH
 
124
 

 

 
769
 
769
 
 
94.3
% 
 
 
94.5
% 
 
$
5,401
  
 
$
5,269
  

 Sherwood Forest RV
 
5300 W. Irlo Bronson Hwy
 
Kissimmee
 
FL
 
34746
 
RV
 
107
 
43
 
149
 
513
 
139
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,476
  
 
$
4,665
  

 Tropical Palms (g)
 
2650 Holiday Trail
 
Kissimmee
 
FL
 
34746
 
RV
 
59
 

 

 
541
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Beacon Hill Colony (a)
 
1112 West Beacon Road
 
Lakeland
 
FL
 
33803
 
MH
 
31
 

 

 
201
 
201
 
 
98.5
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
3,612
  
 
 
—  
  

 Beacon Terrace (a)
 
2425 Harden Boulevard
 
Lakeland
 
FL
 
33803
 
MH
 
55
 

 

 
297
 
297
 
 
99.3
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,510
  
 
 
—  
  

 Kings & Queens (a)
 
2808 N. Florida Avenue
 
Lakeland
 
FL
 
33805
 
MH
 
18
 

 

 
107
 
107
 
 
96.3
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,578
  
 
 
—  
  

 Lakeland Harbor (a)
 
4747 N. State Road
 
Lakeland
 
FL
 
33805
 
MH
 
65
 

 

 
504
 
504
 
 
99.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,245
  
 
 
—  
  

 Lakeland Junction (a)
 
202 East Griffin Road
 
Lakeland
 
FL
 
33805
 
MH
 
23
 

 

 
193
 
193
 
 
98.4
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
3,579
  
 
 
—  
  

 Coachwood Colony
 
2610 Dogwood Place
 
Leesburg
 
FL
 
34748
 
MH
 
29
 

 

 
202
 
202
 
 
91.1
% 
 
 
89.6
% 
 
$
3,810
  
 
$
3,833
  

 Mid-Florida Lakes
 
199 Forest Dr.
 
Leesburg
 
FL
 
34788
 
MH
 
290
 

 

 
1,225
 
1,225
 
 
83.0
% 
 
 
82.3
% 
 
$
5,733
  
 
$
5,604
  

 Southernaire
 
1700 Sanford Road
 
Mt. Dora
 
FL
 
32757
 
MH
 
14
 

 

 
114
 
114
 
 
79.8
% 
 
 
81.5
% 
 
$
3,958
  
 
$
3,724
  

 Foxwood (a)
 
4705 NW 20th Street
 
Ocala
 
FL
 
34482
 
MH
 
56
 

 

 
375
 
375
 
 
84.3
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,470
  
 
 
—  
  

 Oak Bend
 
10620 S.W. 27th Ave.
 
Ocala
 
FL
 
34476
 
MH
 
62
 
3
 

 
262
 
262
 
 
88.5
% 
 
 
88.9
% 
 
$
5,009
  
 
$
4,856
  

 Villas at Spanish Oaks
 
3150 N.E. 36th Avenue
 
Ocala
 
FL
 
34479
 
MH
 
69
 

 

 
459
 
459
 
 
88.2
% 
 
 
87.6
% 
 
$
4,866
  
 
$
4,726
  

 Audubon (a)
 
6565 Beggs Road
 
Orlando
 
FL
 
32810
 
MH
 
40
 

 

 
280
 
280
 
 
93.2
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,611
  
 
 
—  
  

 Hidden Valley (a)
 
8950 Polynesian Lane
 
Orlando
 
FL
 
32836
 
MH
 
50
 

 

 
303
 
303
 
 
98.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,076
  
 
 
—  
  

 Starlight Ranch (a)
 
6000 East Pershing Avenue
 
Orlando
 
FL
 
32822
 
MH
 
130
 

 

 
783
 
783
 
 
80.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,623
  
 
 
—  
  

 Covington Estates (a)
 
3400 Glenwick Drive
 
Saint Cloud
 
FL
 
34772
 
MH
 
59
 

 

 
241
 
241
 
 
92.9
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,229
  
 
 
—  
  

 Parkwood Communities (a)
 
414 Springlake Road
 
Wildwood
 
FL
 
34785
 
MH
 
121
 

 

 
694
 
694
 
 
95.5
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
3,073
  
 
 
—  
  

 Three Flags RV Resort
 
1755 E State Rd 44
 
Wildwood
 
FL
 
34785
 
RV
 
23
 

 

 
221
 
9
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
2,456
  
 
 
—  
  

 Winter Garden
 
13905 W. Colonial Dr.
 
Winter Garden
 
FL
 
34787
 
RV
 
27
 

 

 
350
 
123
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,467
  
 
$
4,437
  

 Gulf Coast (Tampa/Naples):
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Toby’s RV
 
3550 N.E. Hwy 70
 
Arcadia
 
FL
 
34266
 
RV
 
44
 

 

 
379
 
265
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,679
  
 
$
2,613
  

 Winter Quarters Manatee
 
800 Kay Road NE
 
Bradenton
 
FL
 
34212
 
RV
 
42
 

 

 
415
 
215
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,004
  
 
$
4,998
  

 Windmill Manor
 
5320 53rd Ave. East
 
Bradenton
 
FL
 
34203
 
MH
 
49
 

 

 
292
 
292
 
 
95.2
% 
 
 
95.5
% 
 
$
6,081
  
 
$
5,766
  

 Glen Ellen
 
2882 Gulf to Bay Blvd
 
Clearwater
 
FL
 
33759
 
MH
 
12
 

 

 
106
 
106
 
 
88.7
% 
 
 
88.7
% 
 
$
4,980
  
 
$
4,977
  

 Hillcrest
 
2346 Druid Road East
 
Clearwater
 
FL
 
33764
 
MH
 
25
 

 

 
278
 
278
 
 
93.2
% 
 
 
92.8
% 
 
$
5,065
  
 
$
4,916
  

 Holiday Ranch
 
4300 East Bay Drive
 
Clearwater
 
FL
 
33764
 
MH
 
12
 

 

 
150
 
150
 
 
87.3
% 
 
 
86.7
% 
 
$
4,791
  
 
$
4,689
  

 Silk Oak
 
28488 US Highway 19 N
 
Clearwater
 
FL
 
33761
 
MH
 
19
 

 

 
181
 
181
 
 
87.8
% 
 
 
87.3
% 
 
$
5,082
  
 
$
5,000
  

 Shady Oaks (a)
 
15777 Bolesta Road
 
Clearwater
 
FL
 
33760
 
MH
 
31
 

 

 
250
 
250
 
 
94.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,497
  
 
 
—  
  

 Shady Village (a)
 
15666 49th St. North
 
Clearwater
 
FL
 
33760
 
MH
 
19
 

 

 
156
 
156
 
 
94.9
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,677
  
 
 
—  
  

 Crystal Isles
 
11419 W. Ft. Island Drive
 
Crystal River
 
FL
 
34429
 
RV
 
38
 

 

 
260
 
44
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,258
  
 
$
5,175
  

 Lake Haven
 
1415 Main Street
 
Dunedin
 
FL
 
34698
 
MH
 
48
 

 

 
379
 
379
 
 
88.4
% 
 
 
88.1
% 
 
$
5,738
  
 
$
5,492
  

 Colony Cove (a)
 
4313 Kings Drive
 
Ellenton
 
FL
 
34222
 
MH
 
538
 

 

 
2,207
 
2,207
 
 
87.1
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,069
  
 
 
—  
  

 Ridgewood Estates (a)
 
3461 Stephanie Lane
 
Ellenton
 
FL
 
34222
 
MH
 
77
 

 

 
380
 
380
 
 
98.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,187
  
 
 
—  
  

 Fort Myers Beach Resort
 
16299 San Carlos Blvd.
 
Fort Myers
 
FL
 
33908
 
RV
 
31
 

 

 
306
 
91
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
6,106
  
 
$
5,961
  

 Gulf Air Resort
 
17279 San Carlos Blvd. SW
 
Fort Myers
 
FL
 
33931
 
RV
 
25
 

 

 
246
 
154
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,290
  
 
$
5,111
  

 Barrington Hills
 
9412 New York Avenue
 
Hudson
 
FL
 
34667
 
RV
 
28
 

 

 
392
 
257
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,260
  
 
$
3,195
  
  20 


Table of Contents








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Down Yonder
 
7001 N. 142nd Avenue
 
Largo
 
FL
 
33771
 
MH
 
50
 

 

 
361
 
361
 
 
97.8
% 
 
 
98.1
% 
 
$
6,095
  
 
$
6,082
  

 East Bay Oaks
 
601 Starkey Road
 
Largo
 
FL
 
33771
 
MH
 
40
 

 

 
328
 
328
 
 
97.9
% 
 
 
96.3
% 
 
$
5,034
  
 
$
5,028
  

 Eldorado Village
 
2505 East Bay Drive
 
Largo
 
FL
 
33771
 
MH
 
25
 

 

 
227
 
227
 
 
99.1
% 
 
 
98.2
% 
 
$
5,034
  
 
$
5,021
  

 Shangri La
 
249 Jasper Street N.W.
 
Largo
 
FL
 
33770
 
MH
 
14
 

 

 
160
 
160
 
 
75.6
% 
 
 
78.8
% 
 
$
5,024
  
 
$
4,810
  

 Vacation Village
 
6900 Ulmerton Road
 
Largo
 
FL
 
33771
 
RV
 
29
 

 

 
293
 
154
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,289
  
 
$
4,236
  

 Whispering Pines - Largo (a)
 
7501 142nd Ave North
 
Largo
 
FL
 
33771
 
MH
 
55
 

 

 
392
 
392
 
 
85.5
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,016
  
 
 
—  
  

 Winter Quarters Pasco
 
21632 State Road 54
 
Lutz
 
FL
 
33549
 
RV
 
27
 

 

 
255
 
173
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,761
  
 
$
3,664
  

 Buccaneer
 
2210 N. Tamiami Trail N.E.
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
FL
 
33903
 
MH
 
223
 
39
 
162
 
971
 
971
 
 
98.2
% 
 
 
98.4
% 
 
$
6,435
  
 
$
6,189
  

 Island Vista MHC
 
3000 N. Tamiami Trail
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
FL
 
33903
 
MH
 
121
 

 

 
616
 
616
 
 
78.1
% 
 
 
76.1
% 
 
$
4,157
  
 
$
4,097
  

 Lake Fairways
 
19371 Tamiami Trail
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
FL
 
33903
 
MH
 
259
 

 

 
896
 
896
 
 
99.4
% 
 
 
99.6
% 
 
$
6,359
  
 
$
6,242
  

 Pine Lakes
 
10200 Pine Lakes Blvd.
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
FL
 
33903
 
MH
 
314
 

 

 
584
 
584
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
7,483
  
 
$
7,304
  

 Pioneer Village
 
7974 Samville Rd.
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
FL
 
33917
 
RV
 
90
 

 

 
733
 
370
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,370
  
 
$
4,329
  

 The Heritage
 
3000 Heritage Lakes Blvd.
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
FL
 
33917
 
MH
 
214
 
22
 
132
 
453
 
453
 
 
98.7
% 
 
 
98.2
% 
 
$
5,602
  
 
$
5,495
  

 Windmill Village
 
16131 N. Cleveland Ave.
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
FL
 
33903
 
MH
 
69
 

 

 
491
 
491
 
 
89.6
% 
 
 
89.8
% 
 
$
5,025
  
 
$
5,006
  

 Country Place
 
2601 Country Place Blvd.
 
New Port Richey
 
FL
 
34655
 
MH
 
82
 

 

 
515
 
515
 
 
99.6
% 
 
 
80.2
% 
 
$
5,353
  
 
$
5,199
  

 Hacienda Village
 
7107 Gibraltar Ave
 
New Port Richey
 
FL
 
34653
 
MH
 
66
 

 

 
505
 
505
 
 
95.4
% 
 
 
96.6
% 
 
$
5,238
  
 
$
5,107
  

 Harbor View
 
6617 Louisna Ave
 
New Port Richey
 
FL
 
34653
 
MH
 
69
 

 

 
471
 
471
 
 
98.3
% 
 
 
98.3
% 
 
$
4,444
  
 
$
4,322
  

 Bay Lake Estates
 
1200 East Colonia Lane
 
Nokomis
 
FL
 
34275
 
MH
 
34
 

 

 
228
 
228
 
 
94.7
% 
 
 
94.3
% 
 
$
6,494
  
 
$
6,320
  

 Lake Village (a)
 
400 Lake Drive
 
Nokomis
 
FL
 
34275
 
MH
 
65
 

 

 
391
 
391
 
 
95.4
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,495
  
 
 
—  
  

 Royal Coachman
 
1070 Laurel Road East
 
Nokomis
 
FL
 
34275
 
RV
 
111
 

 

 
546
 
439
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
6,473
  
 
$
6,373
  

 Silver Dollar
 
12515 Silver Dollar Drive
 
Odessa
 
FL
 
33556
 
RV
 
412
 

 

 
459
 
393
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,968
  
 
$
5,676
  

 Terra Ceia
 
9303 Bayshore Road
 
Palmetto
 
FL
 
34221
 
RV
 
18
 

 

 
203
 
139
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,893
  
 
$
3,730
  

 Lakes at Countrywood
 
745 Arbor Estates Way
 
Plant City
 
FL
 
33565
 
MH
 
122
 

 

 
424
 
424
 
 
92.7
% 
 
 
93.6
% 
 
$
4,496
  
 
$
4,320
  

 Meadows at Countrywood
 
745 Arbor Estates Way
 
Plant City
 
FL
 
33565
 
MH
 
140
 
13
 
110
 
799
 
799
 
 
96.1
% 
 
 
95.7
% 
 
$
5,217
  
 
$
5,128
  

 Oaks at Countrywood
 
745 Arbor Estates Way
 
Plant City
 
FL
 
33565
 
MH
 
44
 

 

 
168
 
168
 
 
76.2
% 
 
 
75.6
% 
 
$
4,529
  
 
$
4,352
  

 Harbor Lakes
 
3737 El Jobean Road #294
 
Port Charlotte
 
FL
 
33953
 
RV
 
80
 

 

 
528
 
295
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,783
  
 
$
4,744
  

 Emerald Lake (a)
 
24300 Airport Road
 
Punta Gorda
 
FL
 
33950
 
MH
 
28
 

 

 
200
 
200
 
 
90.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,332
  
 
 
—  
  

 Gulf View
 
10205 Burnt Store Road
 
Punta Gorda
 
FL
 
33950
 
RV
 
78
 

 

 
206
 
52
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,575
  
 
$
4,568
  

 Tropical Palms
 
17100 Tamiami Trail
 
Punta Gorda
 
FL
 
33955
 
MH
 
50
 

 

 
294
 
294
 
 
87.8
% 
 
 
88.1
% 
 
$
3,684
  
 
$
3,565
  

 Winds of St. Armands No.
 
4000 N. Tuttle Ave.
 
Sarasota
 
FL
 
34234
 
MH
 
74
 

 

 
471
 
471
 
 
96.0
% 
 
 
95.5
% 
 
$
6,585
  
 
$
6,501
  

 Winds of St. Armands So.
 
3000 N. Tuttle Ave.
 
Sarasota
 
FL
 
34234
 
MH
 
61
 

 

 
306
 
306
 
 
98.4
% 
 
 
98.7
% 
 
$
6,723
  
 
$
6,593
  

 Peace River
 
2555 US Highway 17
 
South Wauchula
 
FL
 
33873
 
RV
 
72
 
38
 

 
454
 
39
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,757
  
 
$
1,977
  

 Topics
 
13063 County Line Road
 
Spring Hill
 
FL
 
34609
 
RV
 
35
 

 

 
230
 
193
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,145
  
 
$
3,121
  

 Pine Island
 
5120 Stringfellow Road
 
St. James City
 
FL
 
33956
 
RV
 
31
 

 

 
363
 
87
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,249
  
 
$
5,030
  

 Carefree Village (a)
 
8000 Sheldon Road
 
Tampa
 
FL
 
33615
 
MH
 
58
 

 

 
401
 
401
 
 
94.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,717
  
 
 
—  
  

 Tarpon Glen (a)
 
1038 Sparrow Lane
 
Tarpon Springs
 
FL
 
34689
 
MH
 
24
 

 

 
169
 
169
 
 
87.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,270
  
 
 
—  
  

 Featherock (a)
 
2200 Highway 60 East
 
Valrico
 
FL
 
33594
 
MH
 
84
 

 

 
521
 
521
 
 
97.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,608
  
 
 
—  
  

 Bay Indies
 
950 Ridgewood Ave
 
Venice
 
FL
 
34285
 
MH
 
210
 

 

 
1,309
 
1,309
 
 
94.2
% 
 
 
94.3
% 
 
$
7,712
  
 
$
7,353
  

 Ramblers Rest
 
1300 North River Rd.
 
Venice
 
FL
 
34293
 
RV
 
117
 

 

 
647
 
409
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,109
  
 
$
4,947
  

 Crystal Lakes-Zephyrhills (a)
 
4604 Lake Crystal Blvd.
 
Zephyrhills
 
FL
 
33541
 
MH
 
146
 

 
140
 
318
 
318
 
 
95.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
3,387
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sixth Avenue
 
39345 6th Avenue
 
Zephyrhills
 
FL
 
33542
 
MH
 
14
 

 

 
140
 
140
 
 
86.4
% 
 
 
86.4
% 
 
$
2,600
  
 
$
2,534
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Florida Market:
 

 

 

 

 

 
9,889
 
410
 
1,844
 
50,959
 
42,106
 
 
92.2
% 
 
 
92.6
% 
 
$
5,423
  
 
$
5,419
  

 California
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Northern California:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Monte del Lago
 
13100 Monte del Lago
 
Castroville
 
CA
 
95012
 
MH
 
54
 

 

 
310
 
310
 
 
93.9
% 
 
 
93.5
% 
 
$
12,900
  
 
$
12,687
  

 Colony Park
 
3939 Central Avenue
 
Ceres
 
CA
 
95307
 
MH
 
20
 

 

 
186
 
186
 
 
88.2
% 
 
 
93.5
% 
 
$
6,870
  
 
$
6,837
  

 Russian River
 
33655 Geysers Rd
 
Cloverdale
 
CA
 
95425
 
RV
 
41
 

 

 
135
 
2
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,791
  
 
$
2,575
  

 Snowflower
 
41776 Yuba Gap Dr
 
Emigrant Gap
 
CA
 
95715
 
RV
 
612
 
200
 

 
268
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  21 


Table of Contents








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Four Seasons
 
3138 West Dakota
 
Fresno
 
CA
 
93722
 
MH
 
40
 

 

 
242
 
242
 
 
88.8
% 
 
 
88.8
% 
 
$
4,350
  
 
$
4,315
  

 Yosemite Lakes
 
31191 Harden Flat Rd
 
Groveland
 
CA
 
95321
 
RV
 
403
 
30
 
111
 
299
 
1
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,022
  
 
$
1,931
  

 Tahoe Valley (b)
 
1175 Melba Drive
 
Lake Tahoe
 
CA
 
96150
 
RV
 
86
 
20
 
200
 
413
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sea Oaks
 
1675 Los Osos Valley Rd., #221
 
Los Osos
 
CA
 
93402
 
MH
 
18
 

 

 
125
 
125
 
 
98.4
% 
 
 
98.4
% 
 
$
6,238
  
 
$
6,045
  

 Ponderosa
 
7291 Highway 49
 
Lotus
 
CA
 
95651
 
RV
 
22
 

 

 
170
 
15
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,895
  
 
$
2,722
  

 Turtle Beach
 
703 E Williamson Rd
 
Manteca
 
CA
 
95337
 
RV
 
39
 

 

 
79
 
7
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,070
  
 
$
3,135
  

 Coralwood (b)
 
331 Coralwood
 
Modesto
 
CA
 
95356
 
MH
 
22
 

 

 
194
 
194
 
 
67.0
% 
 
 
73.2
% 
 
$
8,603
  
 
$
8,569
  

 Lake Minden
 
1256 Marcum Rd
 
Nicolaus
 
CA
 
95659
 
RV
 
165
 
82
 
540
 
323
 
11
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,647
  
 
$
2,734
  

 Lake of the Springs
 
14152 French Town Rd
 
Oregon House
 
CA
 
95962
 
RV
 
954
 
507
 
1,014
 
541
 
58
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,629
  
 
$
2,413
  

 Concord Cascade
 
245 Aria Drive
 
Pacheco
 
CA
 
94553
 
MH
 
31
 

 

 
283
 
283
 
 
99.6
% 
 
 
99.6
% 
 
$
8,249
  
 
$
8,029
  

 San Francisco RV
 
700 Palmetto Ave
 
Pacifica
 
CA
 
94044
 
RV
 
12
 

 

 
182
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Quail Meadows
 
5901 Newbrook Drive
 
Riverbank
 
CA
 
95367
 
MH
 
20
 

 

 
146
 
146
 
 
93.2
% 
 
 
90.4
% 
 
$
8,349
  
 
$
8,182
  

 California Hawaiian
 
3637 Snell Avenue
 
San Jose
 
CA
 
95136
 
MH
 
50
 

 

 
418
 
418
 
 
99.5
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
11,109
  
 
$
10,733
  

 Sunshadow
 
1350 Panoche Avenue
 
San Jose
 
CA
 
95122
 
MH
 
30
 

 

 
121
 
121
 
 
99.2
% 
 
 
98.3
% 
 
$
10,718
  
 
$
10,400
  

 Village of the Four Seasons
 
200 Ford Road
 
San Jose
 
CA
 
95138
 
MH
 
30
 

 

 
271
 
271
 
 
97.0
% 
 
 
97.4
% 
 
$
10,257
  
 
$
9,954
  

 Westwinds (4 Properties)
 
500 Nicholson Lane
 
San Jose
 
CA
 
95134
 
MH
 
88
 

 

 
723
 
723
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
96.4
% 
 
$
11,907
  
 
$
11,527
  

 Laguna Lake
 
1801 Perfumo Canyon Road
 
San Luis Obispo
 
CA
 
93405
 
MH
 
100
 

 

 
300
 
300
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
99.7
% 
 
$
6,008
  
 
$
5,895
  

 Contempo Marin
 
400 Yosemite Road
 
San Rafael
 
CA
 
94903
 
MH
 
63
 

 

 
396
 
396
 
 
98.2
% 
 
 
98.2
% 
 
$
10,094
  
 
$
9,202
  

 DeAnza Santa Cruz
 
2395 Delaware Avenue
 
Santa Cruz
 
CA
 
95060
 
MH
 
30
 

 

 
198
 
198
 
 
93.9
% 
 
 
92.9
% 
 
$
12,598
  
 
$
12,166
  

 Santa Cruz Ranch RV Resort
 
917 Disc Drive
 
Scotts Valley
 
CA
 
95066
 
RV
 
7
 

 

 
106
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Royal Oaks
 
415 Akers Drive N.
 
Visalia
 
CA
 
93291
 
MH
 
20
 

 

 
149
 
149
 
 
96.0
% 
 
 
97.3
% 
 
$
6,023
  
 
$
5,702
  

 Southern California:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Soledad Canyon
 
4700 Crown Valley Rd
 
Acton
 
CA
 
93510
 
RV
 
273
 

 

 
1,251
 
101
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,581
  
 
$
2,872
  

 Los Ranchos (a)
 
20843 Waalew Road
 
Apple Valley
 
CA
 
92307
 
MH
 
30
 

 

 
389
 
389
 
 
96.4
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,047
  
 
 
—  
  

 Date Palm Country Club (b)
 
36-200 Date Palm Drive
 
Cathedral City
 
CA
 
92234
 
MH
 
232
 
3
 
24
 
538
 
538
 
 
95.5
% 
 
 
96.1
% 
 
$
11,790
  
 
$
11,481
  

 Date Palm RV (b)
 
36-100 Date Palm Drive
 
Cathedral City
 
CA
 
92234
 
RV
 
(f)
 

 

 
140
 
27
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,183
  
 
$
4,107
  

 Oakzanita
 
11053 Highway 79
 
Descanso
 
CA
 
91916
 
RV
 
145
 
5
 

 
146
 
14
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,999
  
 
$
2,882
  

 Rancho Mesa
 
450 East Bradley Ave.
 
El Cajon
 
CA
 
92021
 
MH
 
20
 

 

 
158
 
158
 
 
78.5
% 
 
 
68.4
% 
 
$
11,215
  
 
$
11,293
  

 Rancho Valley
 
12970 Hwy 8 Business
 
El Cajon
 
CA
 
92021
 
MH
 
19
 

 

 
140
 
140
 
 
97.1
% 
 
 
97.9
% 
 
$
12,060
  
 
$
11,383
  

 Royal Holiday
 
4400 W Florida Ave
 
Hemet
 
CA
 
92545
 
MH
 
22
 

 

 
196
 
196
 
 
67.9
% 
 
 
60.7
% 
 
$
5,386
  
 
$
5,177
  

 Idyllwild
 
24400 Canyon Trail Drive
 
Idyllwild
 
CA
 
92549
 
RV
 
191
 

 

 
287
 
25
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,408
  
 
$
2,351
  

 Pio Pico
 
14615 Otay Lakes Rd
 
Jamul
 
CA
 
91935
 
RV
 
176
 
10
 

 
512
 
82
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,479
  
 
$
3,723
  

 Wilderness Lakes
 
30605 Briggs Rd
 
Menifee
 
CA
 
92584
 
RV
 
73
 

 

 
529
 
31
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,745
  
 
$
3,717
  

 Morgan Hill
 
12895 Uvas Rd
 
Morgan Hill
 
CA
 
95037
 
RV
 
62
 

 

 
339
 
18
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,296
  
 
$
3,292
  

 Pacific Dunes Ranch
 
1205 Silver Spur Place
 
Oceana
 
CA
 
93445
 
RV
 
48
 

 

 
215
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 San Benito
 
16225 Cienega Rd
 
Paicines
 
CA
 
95043
 
RV
 
199
 
23
 

 
523
 
33
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,887
  
 
$
2,746
  

 Palm Springs
 
77500 Varner Rd
 
Palm Desert
 
CA
 
92211
 
RV
 
35
 

 

 
401
 
45
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,549
  
 
$
3,329
  

 Las Palmas
 
1025 S. Riverside Ave.
 
Rialto
 
CA
 
92376
 
MH
 
18
 

 

 
136
 
136
 
 
99.3
% 
 
 
99.3
% 
 
$
6,276
  
 
$
5,989
  

 Parque La Quinta
 
350 S. Willow Ave. #120
 
Rialto
 
CA
 
92376
 
MH
 
19
 

 

 
166
 
166
 
 
98.8
% 
 
 
99.4
% 
 
$
6,100
  
 
$
5,927
  

 Rancho Oso
 
3750 Paradise Rd
 
Santa Barbara
 
CA
 
93105
 
RV
 
310
 
40
 

 
187
 
23
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,530
  
 
$
3,329
  

 Meadowbrook
 
8301 Mission Gorge Rd.
 
Santee
 
CA
 
92071
 
MH
 
43
 

 

 
338
 
338
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
99.1
% 
 
$
8,791
  
 
$
8,668
  

 Lamplighter
 
10767 Jamacha Blvd.
 
Spring Valley
 
CA
 
91978
 
MH
 
32
 

 

 
270
 
270
 
 
97.4
% 
 
 
98.1
% 
 
$
12,324
  
 
$
12,206
  

 Santiago Estates
 
13691 Gavina Ave. #632
 
Sylmar
 
CA
 
91342
 
MH
 
113
 
9
 

 
300
 
300
 
 
99.7
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
11,697
  
 
$
11,574
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total California Market
 

 

 

 

 

 
5,017
 
929
 
1,889
 
13,739
 
7,186
 
 
95.4
% 
 
 
94.8
% 
 
$
9,113
  
 
$
9,109
  

 Arizona
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Countryside RV
 
2701 S. Idaho Rd
 
Apache Junction
 
AZ
 
85219
 
RV
 
53
 

 

 
560
 
307
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,762
  
 
$
2,988
  

 Golden Sun RV
 
999 W Broadway Ave
 
Apache Junction
 
AZ
 
85220
 
RV
 
33
 

 

 
329
 
204
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,228
  
 
$
3,131
  
  22 


Table of Contents








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Apache East (a)
 
3500 S. Tomahawk
 
Apache Junction
 
AZ
 
85119
 
MH
 
17
 

 

 
123
 
123
 
 
97.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,821
  
 
 
—  
  

 Denali Park (a)
 
3405 S. Tomahawk
 
Apache Junction
 
AZ
 
85119
 
MH
 
33
 

 

 
163
 
163
 
 
91.4
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,463
  
 
 
—  
  

 Valley Vista
 
1060 S. Highway 80
 
Benson
 
AZ
 
85602
 
RV
 
6
 

 

 
145
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Casita Verde RV
 
2200 N. Trekell Rd.
 
Casa Grande
 
AZ
 
85222
 
RV
 
14
 

 

 
192
 
106
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,370
  
 
$
2,358
  

 Fiesta Grande RV
 
1511 East Florence Blvd.
 
Casa Grande
 
AZ
 
85222
 
RV
 
77
 

 

 
767
 
515
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,885
  
 
$
2,829
  

 Foothills West RV
 
10167 N. Encore Dr.
 
Casa Grande
 
AZ
 
85222
 
RV
 
16
 

 

 
188
 
120
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,302
  
 
$
2,271
  

 Sunshine Valley (a)
 
1650 S. Arizona Avenue
 
Chandler
 
AZ
 
85286
 
MH
 
55
 

 

 
381
 
381
 
 
88.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,277
  
 
 
—  
  

 Verde Valley
 
6400 Thousand Trails Rd, SP # 16
 
Cottonwood
 
AZ
 
86326
 
RV
 
273
 
129
 
515
 
352
 
44
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,182
  
 
$
2,872
  

 Casa del Sol East II
 
10960 N. 67th Avenue
 
Glendale
 
AZ
 
85304
 
MH
 
29
 

 

 
239
 
239
 
 
86.2
% 
 
 
85.8
% 
 
$
6,640
  
 
$
6,869
  

 Casa del Sol East III
 
10960 N. 67th Avenue
 
Glendale
 
AZ
 
85304
 
MH
 
28
 

 

 
236
 
236
 
 
78.4
% 
 
 
79.7
% 
 
$
6,937
  
 
$
6,851
  

 Palm Shadows
 
7300 N. 51st. Avenue
 
Glendale
 
AZ
 
85301
 
MH
 
33
 

 

 
294
 
294
 
 
92.5
% 
 
 
94.2
% 
 
$
5,409
  
 
$
5,390
  

 Monte Vista
 
8865 E. Baseline Road
 
Mesa
 
AZ
 
85209
 
RV
 
142
 
56
 
515
 
832
 
746
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,706
  
 
$
5,535
  

 Viewpoint
 
8700 E. University
 
Mesa
 
AZ
 
85207
 
RV
 
332
 
55
 
467
 
1,954
 
1,555
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,271
  
 
$
5,125
  

 Hacienda de Valencia
 
201 S. Greenfield Rd.
 
Mesa
 
AZ
 
85206
 
MH
 
51
 

 

 
365
 
365
 
 
98.6
% 
 
 
99.2
% 
 
$
6,156
  
 
$
6,051
  

 The Highlands at Brentwood
 
120 North Val Vista Drive
 
Mesa
 
AZ
 
85213
 
MH
 
45
 

 

 
268
 
268
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
99.6
% 
 
$
6,934
  
 
$
6,797
  

 Seyenna Vistas (The Mark)
 
625 West McKellips
 
Mesa
 
AZ
 
85201
 
MH
 
60
 
4
 

 
410
 
410
 
 
85.4
% 
 
 
71.2
% 
 
$
4,265
  
 
$
4,506
  

 Apollo Village
 
10701 N. 99th Ave.
 
Peoria
 
AZ
 
85345
 
MH
 
29
 
3
 

 
238
 
238
 
 
99.2
% 
 
 
97.9
% 
 
$
5,442
  
 
$
5,313
  

 Casa del Sol West I
 
11411 N. 91st Avenue
 
Peoria
 
AZ
 
85345
 
MH
 
31
 

 

 
245
 
245
 
 
98.4
% 
 
 
96.7
% 
 
$
6,184
  
 
$
6,480
  

 Carefree Manor
 
19602 N. 32nd Street
 
Phoenix
 
AZ
 
85050
 
MH
 
16
 

 

 
130
 
130
 
 
99.2
% 
 
 
99.2
% 
 
$
4,983
  
 
$
5,124
  

 Central Park
 
205 West Bell Road
 
Phoenix
 
AZ
 
85023
 
MH
 
37
 

 

 
293
 
293
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
6,230
  
 
$
6,203
  

 Desert Skies
 
19802 N. 32 Street
 
Phoenix
 
AZ
 
85024
 
MH
 
24
 

 

 
165
 
165
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
99.4
% 
 
$
5,826
  
 
$
5,595
  

 Sunrise Heights
 
17801 North 16th Street
 
Phoenix
 
AZ
 
85022
 
MH
 
28
 

 

 
199
 
199
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
99.5
% 
 
$
5,781
  
 
$
5,912
  

 Whispering Palms
 
19225 N. Cave Creek Rd.
 
Phoenix
 
AZ
 
85024
 
MH
 
15
 

 

 
116
 
116
 
 
97.4
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,994
  
 
$
4,794
  

 Desert Vista
 
64812 Harcuvar
 
Salome
 
AZ
 
85348
 
RV
 
10
 

 

 
125
 
6
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,601
  
 
$
2,258
  

 Sedona Shadows
 
6770 W. U.S. Hwy 89A
 
Sedona
 
AZ
 
86336
 
MH
 
48
 
6
 
10
 
198
 
198
 
 
99.5
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
8,266
  
 
$
7,793
  

 Venture In
 
270 N. Clark Rd.
 
Show Low
 
AZ
 
85901
 
RV
 
26
 

 

 
389
 
277
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,957
  
 
$
2,927
  

 Paradise
 
10950 W. Union Hill Drive
 
Sun City
 
AZ
 
85373
 
RV
 
80
 

 

 
950
 
801
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,273
  
 
$
4,169
  

 The Meadows
 
2401 W. Southern Ave.
 
Tempe
 
AZ
 
85282
 
MH
 
60
 

 

 
391
 
391
 
 
99.0
% 
 
 
99.2
% 
 
$
6,570
  
 
$
6,543
  

 Fairview Manor
 
3115 N. Fairview Avenue
 
Tucson
 
AZ
 
85705
 
MH
 
28
 

 

 
237
 
237
 
 
90.3
% 
 
 
86.9
% 
 
$
4,672
  
 
$
4,738
  

 Westpark (a)
 
2501 W. Wickenburg Way
 
Wickenburg
 
AZ
 
85390
 
MH
 
48
 

 
19
 
188
 
188
 
 
96.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,753
  
 
 
—  
  

 Araby
 
6649 E. 32nd. St.
 
Yuma
 
AZ
 
85365
 
RV
 
25
 

 

 
337
 
311
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,267
  
 
$
3,254
  

 Cactus Gardens
 
10657 S. Ave. 9-E
 
Yuma
 
AZ
 
85365
 
RV
 
43
 

 

 
430
 
296
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,239
  
 
$
2,178
  

 Capri RV
 
3380 South 4th Ave
 
Yuma
 
AZ
 
85365
 
RV
 
20
 

 

 
303
 
257
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,909
  
 
$
2,890
  

 Desert Paradise
 
10537 South Ave., 9E
 
Yuma
 
AZ
 
85365
 
RV
 
26
 

 

 
260
 
129
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,288
  
 
$
2,251
  

 Foothill
 
12705 E. South Frontage Rd.
 
Yuma
 
AZ
 
85367
 
RV
 
18
 

 

 
180
 
72
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,259
  
 
$
2,206
  

 Mesa Verde
 
3649 & 3749 South 4th Ave.
 
Yuma
 
AZ
 
85365
 
RV
 
28
 

 

 
345
 
311
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,819
  
 
$
2,789
  

 Suni Sands
 
1960 East 32nd Street
 
Yuma
 
AZ
 
85365
 
RV
 
34
 

 

 
336
 
210
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,695
  
 
$
2,659
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Arizona Market
 

 

 

 

 

 
1,971
 
253
 
1,526
 
13,853
 
11,146
 
 
97.5
% 
 
 
97.4
% 
 
$
4,759
  
 
$
4,660
  

 Colorado
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Hillcrest Village
 
1600 Sable Boulevard
 
Aurora
 
CO
 
80011
 
MH
 
72
 

 

 
601
 
601
 
 
91.7
% 
 
 
88.4
% 
 
$
7,064
  
 
$
7,032
  

 Cimarron
 
12205 North Perry
 
Broomfield
 
CO
 
80020
 
MH
 
50
 

 

 
327
 
327
 
 
84.4
% 
 
 
79.8
% 
 
$
6,901
  
 
$
6,870
  

 Holiday Village,
 
3405 Sinton Road
 
Co. Springs
 
CO
 
80907
 
MH
 
38
 

 

 
240
 
240
 
 
72.9
% 
 
 
70.4
% 
 
$
6,925
  
 
$
6,946
  

 Bear Creek
 
3500 South King Street
 
Denver
 
CO
 
80236
 
MH
 
12
 

 

 
124
 
124
 
 
87.9
% 
 
 
88.7
% 
 
$
6,716
  
 
$
6,738
  

 Holiday Hills
 
2000 West 92nd Avenue
 
Denver
 
CO
 
80260
 
MH
 
99
 

 

 
736
 
736
 
 
79.9
% 
 
 
78.9
% 
 
$
6,898
  
 
$
6,723
  

 Golden Terrace
 
17601 West Colfax Ave.
 
Golden
 
CO
 
80401
 
MH
 
32
 

 

 
265
 
265
 
 
85.3
% 
 
 
80.8
% 
 
$
7,566
  
 
$
7,485
  

 Golden Terrace South
 
17601 West Colfax Ave.
 
Golden
 
CO
 
80401
 
MH
 
15
 

 

 
80
 
80
 
 
68.8
% 
 
 
63.8
% 
 
$
7,043
  
 
$
7,311
  

 Golden Terrace South RV
 
17801 West Colfax Ave.
 
Golden
 
CO
 
80401
 
RV
 
(f)
 

 

 
80
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  23 


Table of Contents








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Golden Terrace West
 
17601 West Colfax Ave.
 
Golden
 
CO
 
80401
 
MH
 
39
 
7
 

 
316
 
316
 
 
75.3
% 
 
 
73.1
% 
 
$
7,427
  
 
$
7,273
  

 Pueblo Grande
 
999 Fortino Blvd. West
 
Pueblo
 
CO
 
81008
 
MH
 
33
 

 

 
251
 
251
 
 
71.3
% 
 
 
74.1
% 
 
$
4,257
  
 
$
4,249
  

 Woodland Hills
 
1500 W. Thornton Pkwy.
 
Thorton
 
CO
 
80260
 
MH
 
55
 

 

 
434
 
434
 
 
76.5
% 
 
 
77.2
% 
 
$
6,656
  
 
$
6,726
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Colordao Market
 

 

 

 

 

 
445
 
7
 
0
 
3,454
 
3,374
 
 
80.9
% 
 
 
79.1
% 
 
$
6,828
  
 
$
6,761
  

 Northeast
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Stonegate Manor (a)
 
1 Stonegate Drive
 
North Windham
 
CT
 
06256
 
MH
 
114
 

 

 
372
 
372
 
 
96.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,841
  
 
 
—  
  

 Waterford
 
205 Joan Drive
 
Bear
 
DE
 
19701
 
MH
 
159
 

 

 
731
 
731
 
 
96.3
% 
 
 
96.4
% 
 
$
6,752
  
 
$
6,570
  

 Whispering Pines
 
32045 Janice Road
 
Lewes
 
DE
 
19958
 
MH
 
67
 
2
 

 
393
 
393
 
 
86.3
% 
 
 
82.7
% 
 
$
5,223
  
 
$
5,051
  

 Mariners Cove
 
35356 Sussex Lane #1
 
Millsboro
 
DE
 
19966
 
MH
 
101
 

 

 
375
 
375
 
 
97.9
% 
 
 
97.6
% 
 
$
7,163
  
 
$
7,058
  

 Aspen Meadows
 
303 Palace Lane
 
Rehoboth
 
DE
 
19971
 
MH
 
46
 

 

 
200
 
200
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,668
  
 
$
5,574
  

 Camelot Meadows
 
303 Palace Lane
 
Rehoboth
 
DE
 
19971
 
MH
 
61
 

 

 
301
 
301
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,392
  
 
$
5,210
  

 McNicol
 
303 Palace Lane
 
Rehoboth
 
DE
 
19971
 
MH
 
25
 

 

 
93
 
93
 
 
97.8
% 
 
 
97.8
% 
 
$
5,079
  
 
$
4,941
  

 Sweetbriar
 
83 Big Burn Lane
 
Rehoboth
 
DE
 
19958
 
MH
 
38
 

 

 
146
 
146
 
 
98.6
% 
 
 
98.6
% 
 
$
4,944
  
 
$
4,853
  

 The Glen (a)
 
214 Washington Street
 
Norwell
 
MA
 
02061
 
MH
 
24
 

 

 
36
 
36
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
7,243
  
 
 
—  
  

 Gateway to Cape Cod
 
90 Stevens Rd PO Box 217
 
Rochester
 
MA
 
02770
 
RV
 
80
 

 

 
194
 
38
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,175
  
 
$
2,075
  

 Hillcrest (a)
 
401 Beech Street
 
Rockland
 
MA
 
02370
 
MH
 
19
 

 

 
82
 
82
 
 
97.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,232
  
 
 
—  
  

 Old Chatham RV
 
310 Old Chatham Road
 
South Dennis
 
MA
 
02660
 
RV
 
47
 
11
 

 
312
 
274
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,837
  
 
$
3,820
  

 Sturbridge
 
19 Mashapaug Rd
 
Sturbridge
 
MA
 
01566
 
RV
 
223
 

 

 
155
 
44
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,099
  
 
$
2,510
  

 Fernwood (a)
 
1901 Fernwood Drive
 
Capitol Heights
 
MD
 
20743
 
MH
 
40
 

 

 
329
 
329
 
 
93.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,545
  
 
 
—  
  

 Williams Estates and Peppermint Woods
(a)
 
3300 Eastern Blvd.
 
Baltimore
 
MD
 
21220
 
MH
 
121
 

 

 
804
 
804
 
 
96.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,473
  
 
 
—  
  

 Mount Desert Narrows
 
1219 State Highway 3
 
Bar Harbor
 
ME
 
04609
 
RV
 
90
 
12
 

 
206
 
9
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,287
  
 
$
2,152
  

 Patten Pond
 
1470 Bucksport Road
 
Ellsworth
 
ME
 
04605
 
RV
 
43
 
60
 

 
137
 
27
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,015
  
 
$
1,616
  

 Moody Beach
 
266 Post Road
 
Moody
 
ME
 
04054
 
RV
 
48
 

 

 
203
 
70
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,906
  
 
$
2,946
  

 Pinehurst RV Park
 
7 Oregon Avenue, P.O. Box 174
 
Old Orchard Beach
 
ME
 
04064
 
RV
 
58
 

 

 
550
 
485
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,192
  
 
$
3,141
  

 Narrows Too
 
1150 Bar Harbor Road
 
Trenton
 
ME
 
04605
 
RV
 
42
 

 

 
207
 
20
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,086
  
 
$
1,848
  

 Forest Lake
 
192 Thousand Trails Dr
 
Advance
 
NC
 
27006
 
RV
 
306
 
81
 

 
305
 
43
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,240
  
 
$
2,196
  

 Scenic
 
1314 Tunnel Rd.
 
Asheville
 
NC
 
28805
 
MH
 
28
 

 

 
205
 
205
 
 
76.6
% 
 
 
78.5
% 
 
$
3,953
  
 
$
3,923
  

 Waterway RV
 
850 Cedar Point Blvd.
 
Cedar Point
 
NC
 
28584
 
RV
 
27
 

 

 
336
 
328
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,635
  
 
$
3,587
  

 Twin Lakes
 
1618 Memory Lane
 
Chocowinity
 
NC
 
27817
 
RV
 
132
 

 

 
419
 
309
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,960
  
 
$
2,970
  

 Green Mountain Park
 
2495 Dimmette Rd
 
Lenoir
 
NC
 
28645
 
RV
 
1,077
 
400
 
360
 
447
 
125
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,560
  
 
$
1,312
  

 Lake Gaston
 
561 Fleming Dairy Road
 
Littleton
 
NC
 
27850
 
RV
 
69
 

 

 
235
 
126
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,287
  
 
$
2,273
  

 Lake Myers RV
 
2862 US Highway 64 West
 
Mocksville
 
NC
 
27028
 
RV
 
74
 

 

 
425
 
301
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,219
  
 
$
2,233
  

 Goose Creek
 
350 Red Barn Road
 
Newport
 
NC
 
28570
 
RV
 
92
 
6
 
51
 
735
 
648
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,719
  
 
$
3,634
  

 Sandy Beach RV
 
677 Clement Hill Road
 
Contoocook
 
NH
 
03229
 
RV
 
40
 

 

 
190
 
99
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,454
  
 
$
3,334
  

 Tuxbury Resort
 
88 Whitehall Road
 
South Hampton
 
NH
 
03827
 
RV
 
193
 
100
 

 
305
 
180
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,035
  
 
$
3,125
  

 Lake & Shore
 
515 Courson Tavern Rd
 
Ocean View
 
NJ
 
08230
 
RV
 
162
 

 

 
401
 
224
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,204
  
 
$
3,780
  

 Chestnut Lake
 
631 Chestnut Neck Rd
 
Port Republic
 
NJ
 
08241
 
RV
 
32
 

 

 
185
 
30
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,343
  
 
$
2,247
  

 Sea Pines
 
US Route #9 Box 1535
 
Swainton
 
NJ
 
08210
 
RV
 
75
 

 

 
549
 
236
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,154
  
 
$
3,032
  

 Pine Ridge at Crestwood (a)
 
2 Fox Street
 
Whiting
 
NJ
 
08759
 
MH
 
188
 

 

 
1,035
 
1,035
 
 
92.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,836
  
 
 
—  
  

 Rondout Valley Resort
 
105 Mettachonts Rd
 
Accord
 
NY
 
12404
 
RV
 
184
 
94
 

 
398
 
46
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,792
  
 
$
2,849
  

 Alpine Lake
 
78 Heath Road
 
Corinth
 
NY
 
12822
 
RV
 
200
 
54
 

 
500
 
293
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,924
  
 
$
2,857
  

 Lake George Escape
 
175 E. Schroon River Road, P.O. Box 431
 
Lake George
 
NY
 
12845
 
RV
 
178
 
30
 

 
576
 
23
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,673
  
 
$
4,995
  

 The Woodlands (a)
 
6237 South Transit Road
 
Lockport
 
NY
 
14094
 
MH
 
225
 

 

 
1,182
 
1,182
 
 
87.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,176
  
 
 
—  
  

 Greenwood Village
 
370 Chapman Boulevard
 
Manorville
 
NY
 
11949
 
MH
 
79
 
14
 
7
 
512
 
512
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
8,194
  
 
$
7,463
  

 Brennan Beach
 
80 Brennan Beach
 
Pulaski
 
NY
 
13142
 
RV
 
201
 

 

 
1,377
 
1,186
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,196
  
 
$
2,079
  

 Lake George Schroon Valley
 
1730 Schroon River Rd
 
Warrensburg
 
NY
 
12885
 
RV
 
151
 

 

 
151
 
28
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,461
  
 
$
1,742
  
  24 


Table of Contents








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Greenbriar Village (a)
 
63A Greenbriar Drive
 
Bath
 
PA
 
18104
 
MH
 
63
 

 

 
319
 
319
 
 
98.4
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,304
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sun Valley
 
451 E. Maple Grove Rd.
 
Bowmansville
 
PA
 
17507
 
RV
 
86
 

 

 
265
 
174
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,657
  
 
$
2,574
  

 Green Acres
 
8785 Turkey Ridge Road
 
Breinigsville
 
PA
 
18031
 
MH
 
149
 

 

 
595
 
595
 
 
92.9
% 
 
 
90.8
% 
 
$
7,110
  
 
$
7,019
  

 Gettysburg Farm
 
6200 Big Mountain Rd
 
Dover
 
PA
 
17315
 
RV
 
124
 

 

 
265
 
58
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,934
  
 
$
1,885
  

 Timothy Lake South
 
RR #6,Box 6627 Timothy Lake Rd
 
East Stroudsburg
 
PA
 
18301
 
RV
 
65
 

 

 
327
 
22
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,960
  
 
$
1,857
  

 Timothy Lake North
 
RR #6,Box 6627 Timothy Lake Rd
 
East Stroudsburg
 
PA
 
18301
 
RV
 
93
 

 

 
323
 
110
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,897
  
 
$
1,914
  

 Circle M
 
2111 Millersville Road
 
Lancaster
 
PA
 
17603
 
RV
 
103
 

 

 
380
 
64
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,331
  
 
$
2,267
  

 Hershey Preserve
 
493 S. Mt. Pleasant Rd
 
Lebanon
 
PA
 
17042
 
RV
 
196
 
20
 

 
297
 
38
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,789
  
 
$
2,553
  

 Robin Hill
 
149 Robin Hill Rd.
 
Lenhartsville
 
PA
 
19534
 
RV
 
44
 

 

 
270
 
158
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,882
  
 
$
2,792
  

 PA Dutch County
 
185 Lehman Road
 
Manheim
 
PA
 
17545
 
RV
 
102
 

 

 
269
 
59
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,718
  
 
$
1,811
  

 Spring Gulch
 
475 Lynch Road
 
New Holland
 
PA
 
17557
 
RV
 
114
 

 

 
420
 
111
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,979
  
 
$
3,853
  

 Lil Wolf (a)
 
3411 Lil Wolf Drive
 
Orefield
 
PA
 
18069
 
MH
 
56
 

 

 
271
 
271
 
 
97.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,888
  
 
 
—  
  

 Scotrun
 
PO Box 428 Route 611
 
Scotrun
 
PA
 
18355
 
RV
 
63
 

 

 
178
 
90
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,931
  
 
$
1,942
  

 Appalachian
 
60 Motel Drive
 
Shartlesville
 
PA
 
19554
 
RV
 
86
 
30
 
200
 
358
 
172
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,581
  
 
$
2,629
  

 Mountain View - PA (a)
 
4 East Zimmer Drive
 
Walnutport
 
PA
 
18088
 
MH
 
45
 

 

 
188
 
188
 
 
94.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,036
  
 
 
—  
  

 Carolina Landing
 
120 Carolina Landing Dr
 
Fair Play
 
SC
 
29643
 
RV
 
73
 

 

 
192
 
36
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,423
  
 
$
1,339
  

 Inlet Oaks
 
180 Burr Circle
 
Murrells Inlet
 
SC
 
29576
 
MH
 
35
 

 

 
172
 
172
 
 
98.3
% 
 
 
98.8
% 
 
$
3,949
  
 
$
3,830
  

 The Oaks at Point South
 
1292 Campground Rd
 
Yemassee
 
SC
 
29945
 
RV
 
10
 

 

 
93
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Meadows of Chantilly
 
4200 Airline Parkway
 
Chantilly
 
VA
 
22021
 
MH
 
82
 

 

 
500
 
500
 
 
99.6
% 
 
 
99.8
% 
 
$
10,680
  
 
$
10,300
  

 Harbor View
 
15 Harbor View Circle
 
Colonial Beach
 
VA
 
22443
 
RV
 
69
 

 

 
146
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Lynchburg
 
405 Mollies Creek Rd
 
Gladys
 
VA
 
24554
 
RV
 
170
 
59
 

 
222
 
16
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,220
  
 
$
1,180
  

 Chesapeake Bay
 
12014 Trails Lane
 
Gloucester
 
VA
 
23061
 
RV
 
282
 
80
 

 
392
 
112
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,928
  
 
$
2,883
  

 Virginia Landing
 
40226 Upshur Neck Rd
 
Quinby
 
VA
 
23423
 
RV
 
863
 
178
 

 
233
 
8
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
810
  
 
$
804
  

 Regency Lakes (a)
 
108 Chamberlian Court
 
Winchester
 
VA
 
22603
 
MH
 
165
 

 

 
523
 
523
 
 
89.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,098
  
 
 
—  
  

 Williamsburg
 
4301 Rochambeau Drive
 
Williamsburg
 
VA
 
23188
 
RV
 
65
 

 

 
211
 
33
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,874
  
 
$
1,816
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Northeast Market
 

 

 

 

 

 
8,362
 
1,231
 
618
 
23,703
 
15,817
 
 
94.3
% 
 
 
98.0
% 
 
$
4,714
  
 
$
4,133
  

 Midwest
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Hidden Cove
 
687 Country Road 3919
 
Arley
 
AL
 
35541
 
RV
 
99
 
60
 
200
 
79
 
27
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,192
  
 
$
1,880
  

 Maple Grove (a)
 
8597 W. Irving Lane
 
Boise
 
ID
 
83704
 
MH
 
38
 

 

 
271
 
271
 
 
74.5
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,682
  
 
 
—  
  

 Shenandoah Estates (a)
 
5603 Bull Run Lane
 
Boise
 
ID
 
83714
 
MH
 
24
 

 

 
154
 
154
 
 
98.1
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,247
  
 
 
—  
  

 West Meadow Estates (a)
 
120 West Driftwood
 
Boise
 
ID
 
83713
 
MH
 
29
 

 

 
178
 
178
 
 
96.1
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,196
  
 
 
—  
  

 O’Connell’s
 
970 Green Wing Road
 
Amboy
 
IL
 
61310
 
RV
 
286
 
100
 
600
 
668
 
349
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,769
  
 
$
2,794
  

 Pine Country
 
5710 Shattuck Road
 
Belvidere
 
IL
 
61008
 
RV
 
131
 

 

 
126
 
78
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,461
  
 
$
1,532
  

 Willow Lake Estates
 
161 West River Road
 
Elgin
 
IL
 
60123
 
MH
 
111
 

 

 
617
 
617
 
 
70.3
% 
 
 
65.2
% 
 
$
8,915
  
 
$
9,118
  

 Golf Vista Estates
 
4951 Augusta Boulevard
 
Monee
 
IL
 
60449
 
MH
 
144
 
4
 

 
408
 
408
 
 
92.6
% 
 
 
90.4
% 
 
$
7,108
  
 
$
7,154
  

 Indian Lakes
 
7234 E. SR Highway 46
 
Batesville
 
IN
 
47006
 
RV
 
545
 
159
 
318
 
1,000
 
243
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,600
  
 
$
1,676
  

 Horseshoe Lakes
 
12962 S. 225 W.
 
Clinton
 
IN
 
47842
 
RV
 
289
 
96
 
96
 
123
 
30
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,148
  
 
$
1,219
  

 Twin Mills RV
 
1675 W SR 120
 
Howe
 
IN
 
46746
 
RV
 
137
 
5
 
50
 
501
 
168
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,176
  
 
$
2,168
  

 Hoosier Estates (a)
 
830 Campbell Street
 
Lebanon
 
IN
 
46052
 
MH
 
60
 

 

 
288
 
288
 
 
92.4
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
2,876
  
 
 
—  
  

 Lakeside
 
7089 N. Chicago Road
 
New Carlisle
 
IN
 
46552
 
RV
 
13
 

 

 
91
 
76
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,261
  
 
$
2,383
  

 Oak Tree Village
 
254 Sandalwood Ave.
 
Portage
 
IN
 
46368
 
MH
 
76
 

 

 
361
 
361
 
 
67.0
% 
 
 
68.1
% 
 
$
5,254
  
 
$
5,185
  

 North Glen Village (a)
 
18200 U.S. 31 N #292
 
Westfield
 
IN
 
46074
 
MH
 
88
 

 

 
289
 
289
 
 
83.4
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
3,471
  
 
 
—  
  

 Diamond Caverns Resort
 
1878 Mammoth Cave Pkwy
 
Park City
 
KY
 
42160
 
RV
 
714
 
350
 
469
 
220
 
1
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,473
  
 
$
1,477
  

 Lake in the Hills (a)
 
2700 Shimmons Road
 
Auburn Hills
 
MI
 
48326
 
MH
 
51
 

 

 
237
 
237
 
 
84.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,485
  
 
 
—  
  

 Bear Cave Resort
 
4085 N. Red Bud Trail
 
Buchanan
 
MI
 
49107
 
RV
 
25
 
10
 

 
136
 
12
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,762
  
 
$
1,781
  

 Fairchild Lake (a)
 
49645 Au Lac Drive
 
Chesterfield
 
MI
 
48051
 
MH
 
78
 

 

 
344
 
344
 
 
72.1
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,474
  
 
 
—  
  

 Old Orchard (a)
 
10500 Lapeer Road
 
Davison
 
MI
 
48423
 
MH
 
41
 

 

 
200
 
200
 
 
68.5
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,162
  
 
 
—  
  

 Grand Blanc Crossing (a)
 
8225 Embury Road
 
Grand Blanc
 
MI
 
48439
 
MH
 
221
 

 

 
478
 
478
 
 
49.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,102
  
 
 
—  
  
  25 


Table of Contents








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Holly Hills (a)
 
16181 Lancaster Way
 
Holly
 
MI
 
48442
 
MH
 
198
 

 

 
241
 
241
 
 
62.2
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,684
  
 
 
—  
  

 Royal Estates (a)
 
8300 Ravine Road
 
Kalamazoo
 
MI
 
49009
 
MH
 
63
 

 

 
183
 
183
 
 
79.2
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,731
  
 
 
—  
  

 Westbridge Manor (a)
 
45301 Chateau Thierry Blvd.
 
Macomb
 
MI
 
48044
 
MH
 
400
 

 

 
1,424
 
1,424
 
 
55.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,386
  
 
 
—  
  

 Westbrook (a)
 
45013 Catalpa Blvd.
 
Macomb
 
MI
 
48044
 
MH
 
79
 

 

 
387
 
387
 
 
95.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,195
  
 
 
—  
  

 Oakland Glens (a)
 
41875 Carousel Street
 
Novi
 
MI
 
48377
 
MH
 
118
 

 

 
724
 
724
 
 
56.5
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,309
  
 
 
—  
  

 Avon on the Lake (a)
 
2889 Sandpiper
 
Rochester Hills
 
MI
 
48309
 
MH
 
83
 

 

 
616
 
616
 
 
73.2
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,332
  
 
 
—  
  

 Saint Claire
 
1299 Wadhams Rd
 
Saint Claire
 
MI
 
48079
 
RV
 
210
 
100
 

 
229
 
16
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,837
  
 
$
1,795
  

 Cranberry Lake (a)
 
9620 Highland Road
 
White Lake
 
MI
 
48386
 
MH
 
54
 

 

 
328
 
328
 
 
78.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,116
  
 
 
—  
  

 Ferrand Estates (a)
 
2680 44th Street
 
Wyoming
 
MI
 
449519
 
MH
 
80
 

 

 
419
 
419
 
 
75.9
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,137
  
 
 
—  
  

 Swan Creek (a)
 
6988 McKean
 
Ypsilanti
 
MI
 
48197
 
MH
 
59
 

 

 
294
 
294
 
 
87.1
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5,475
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cedar Knolls (a)
 
12571 Garland Avenue
 
Apple Valley
 
MN
 
55124
 
MH
 
93
 

 

 
457
 
457
 
 
84.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,721
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cimarron Park (a)
 
901 Lake Elmo Ave N
 
Lake Elmo
 
MN
 
55042
 
MH
 
230
 

 

 
505
 
505
 
 
84.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,804
  
 
 
—  
  

 Rockford Riverview Estates (a)
 
135 Highview Road
 
Rockford
 
MN
 
55373
 
MH
 
88
 

 

 
429
 
429
 
 
84.4
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,101
  
 
 
—  
  

 Rosemount Woods (a)
 
13925 Bunratty Avenue
 
Rosemount
 
MN
 
55068
 
MH
 
50
 

 

 
182
 
182
 
 
94.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
6,394
  
 
 
—  
  

 Buena Vista (a)
 
4301 El Tora Boulevard
 
Fargo
 
ND
 
58103
 
MH
 
76
 

 

 
398
 
398
 
 
92.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,463
  
 
 
—  
  

 Meadow Park (a)
 
3220 12th Avenue North
 
Fargo
 
ND
 
58102
 
MH
 
17
 

 

 
116
 
116
 
 
89.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
3,480
  
 
 
—  
  

 Kenisee Lake
 
2021 Mill Creek Rd
 
Jefferson
 
OH
 
44047
 
RV
 
143
 
50
 

 
119
 
31
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,208
  
 
$
1,224
  

 Wilmington
 
1786 S.R. 380
 
Wilmington
 
OH
 
45177
 
RV
 
109
 
41
 

 
169
 
53
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,680
  
 
$
1,684
  

 Natchez Trace
 
1363 Napier Rd
 
Hohenwald
 
TN
 
38462
 
RV
 
672
 
140
 

 
531
 
80
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,199
  
 
$
1,188
  

 Cherokee Landing
 
PO Box 37
 
Middleton
 
TN
 
38052
 
RV
 
254
 
124
 

 
339
 
1
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
1,117
  
 
 
—  
  

 Fremont
 
E. 6506 Highway 110
 
Fremont
 
WI
 
54940
 
RV
 
98
 
5
 

 
325
 
82
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,670
  
 
$
2,724
  

 Yukon Trails
 
N2330 Co Rd. HH
 
Lyndon Station
 
WI
 
53944
 
RV
 
150
 
30
 

 
214
 
92
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,766
  
 
$
1,735
  

 Plymouth Rock
 
N. 7271 Lando St.
 
Plymouth
 
WI
 
53073
 
RV
 
133
 

 

 
610
 
409
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,124
  
 
$
2,180
  

 Tranquil Timbers
 
3668 Grondin Road
 
Sturgeon Bay
 
WI
 
54235
 
RV
 
125
 

 

 
270
 
172
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,908
  
 
$
1,910
  

 Arrowhead
 
W1530 Arrowhead Road
 
Wisconsin Dells
 
WI
 
53965
 
RV
 
166
 
40
 
200
 
377
 
175
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,773
  
 
$
1,698
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Midwest Market
 

 

 

 

 

 
6,763
 
1,314
 
1,933
 
15,538
 
11,506
 
 
78.0
% 
 
 
89.7
% 
 
$
4,833
  
 
$
3,898
  

 Nevada and Utah
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Mountain View - NV (a)
 
148 Day Street
 
Henderson
 
NV
 
89074
 
MH
 
72
 

 

 
354
 
354
 
 
96.3
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
8,150
  
 
 
—  
  

 Las Vegas
 
4295 Boulder Highway
 
Las Vegas
 
NV
 
89121
 
RV
 
11
 

 

 
217
 
9
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,869
  
 
$
2,843
  

 Bonanza
 
3700 East Stewart Ave
 
Las Vegas
 
NV
 
89110
 
MH
 
43
 

 

 
353
 
353
 
 
63.2
% 
 
 
63.5
% 
 
$
6,342
  
 
$
6,232
  

 Boulder Cascade
 
1601 South Sandhill Rd
 
Las Vegas
 
NV
 
89104
 
MH
 
39
 

 

 
299
 
299
 
 
80.6
% 
 
 
81.6
% 
 
$
6,621
  
 
$
6,514
  

 Cabana
 
5303 East Twain
 
Las Vegas
 
NV
 
89122
 
MH
 
37
 

 

 
263
 
263
 
 
97.3
% 
 
 
97.0
% 
 
$
6,991
  
 
$
6,926
  

 Flamingo West
 
8122 West Flamingo Rd.
 
Las Vegas
 
NV
 
89147
 
MH
 
37
 

 

 
258
 
258
 
 
97.3
% 
 
 
96.1
% 
 
$
7,685
  
 
$
7,685
  

 Villa Borega
 
1111 N. Lamb Boulevard
 
Las Vegas
 
NV
 
89110
 
MH
 
40
 

 

 
293
 
293
 
 
79.5
% 
 
 
79.2
% 
 
$
6,879
  
 
$
6,648
  

 Westwood Village
 
1111 N. 2000 West
 
Farr West
 
UT
 
84404
 
MH
 
46
 

 

 
314
 
314
 
 
98.4
% 
 
 
94.6
% 
 
$
4,781
  
 
$
4,686
  

 All Seasons
 
290 N. Redwood Rd
 
Salt Lake City
 
UT
 
84116
 
MH
 
19
 

 

 
121
 
121
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
87.6
% 
 
$
5,499
  
 
$
5,414
  

 St. George
 
5800 N. Highway 91
 
Hurricane
 
UT
 
84737
 
RV
 
26
 

 

 
123
 
8
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,100
  
 
$
2,000
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Nevada and Utah Market
 

 

 

 

 

 
370
 
0
 
0
 
2,595
 
2,272
 
 
87.7
% 
 
 
84.6
% 
 
$
6,675
  
 
$
6,304
  

 Northwest
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Cultus Lake (Canada)
 
1855 Columbia Valley Hwy
 
Lindell Beach
 
BC
 
V2R4W6
 
RV
 
15
 

 

 
178
 
33
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,430
  
 
$
3,238
  

 Coach Royale (a)
 
181 North Liberty Street
 
Boise
 
ID
 
83704
 
MH
 
12
 

 

 
91
 
91
 
 
73.6
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
$
4,475
  
 
 
—  
  

 Thousand Trails Bend
 
17480 S Century Dr
 
Bend
 
OR
 
97707
 
RV
 
289
 
100
 
145
 
351
 
10
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,993
  
 
$
2,770
  

 Pacific City
 
30000 Sandlake Rd
 
Cloverdale
 
OR
 
97112
 
RV
 
105
 

 

 
307
 
32
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,597
  
 
$
3,340
  

 South Jetty
 
05010 South Jetty Rd
 
Florence
 
OR
 
97439
 
RV
 
57
 

 

 
204
 
3
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,178
  
 
$
2,250
  

 Seaside Resort
 
1703 12th Ave
 
Seaside
 
OR
 
97138
 
RV
 
80
 

 

 
251
 
20
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,233
  
 
$
3,134
  

 Whaler’s Rest Resort
 
50 SE 123rd St
 
South Beach
 
OR
 
97366
 
RV
 
39
 

 

 
170
 
19
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,454
  
 
$
3,280
  
  26 


Table of Contents








































 Property
 
 Address
 
 City
 
State
 
ZIP
 
MH/RV
 
Acres (c)
 
DevelopableAcres
(d)
 
ExpansionSites (e)
 
TotalNumberof Sitesas of12/31/11
 
TotalNumberof AnnualSites as of12/31/11
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/11
 
 
Annual SiteOccupancyas of12/31/10
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/11
 
 
AnnualRent asof12/31/10
 

 Mt. Hood
 
65000 E Highway 26
 
Welches
 
OR
 
97067
 
RV
 
115
 
30
 
202
 
436
 
78
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,460
  
 
$
5,336
  

 Shadowbrook
 
13640 S.E. Hwy 212
 
Clackamas
 
OR
 
97015
 
MH
 
21
 

 

 
156
 
156
 
 
96.8
% 
 
 
96.8
% 
 
$
7,520
  
 
$
7,350
  

 Falcon Wood Village
 
1475 Green Acres Road
 
Eugene
 
OR
 
97408
 
MH
 
23
 

 

 
183
 
183
 
 
87.4
% 
 
 
86.9
% 
 
$
5,939
  
 
$
5,741
  

 Quail Hollow (b)
 
2100 N.E. Sandy Blvd.
 
Fairview
 
OR
 
97024
 
MH
 
21
 

 

 
137
 
137
 
 
92.7
% 
 
 
94.2
% 
 
$
7,446
  
 
$
7,297
  

 Birch Bay
 
8418 Harborview Rd
 
Blaine
 
WA
 
98230
 
RV
 
31
 

 

 
246
 
17
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,485
  
 
$
2,417
  

 Mt. Vernon
 
5409 N. Darrk Ln
 
Bow
 
WA
 
98232
 
RV
 
311
 

 

 
251
 
28
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,906
  
 
$
2,616
  

 Chehalis
 
2228 Centralia-Alpha Rd
 
Chehalis
 
WA
 
98532
 
RV
 
309
 
85
 

 
360
 
24
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,228
  
 
$
1,680
  

 Grandy Creek
 
7370 Russell Rd
 
Concrete
 
WA
 
98237
 
RV
 
63
 

 

 
179
 
2
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,643
  
 
$
2,650
  

 Tall Chief
 
29290 SE 8th Street
 
Fall City
 
WA
 
98024
 
RV
 
71
 

 

 
180
 
23
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,435
  
 
$
1,847
  

 La Conner (b)
 
16362 Snee Oosh Rd
 
La Conner
 
WA
 
98257
 
RV
 
106
 
5
 

 
319
 
28
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,648
  
 
$
3,452
  

 Leavenworth
 
20752-4 Chiwawa Loop Rd
 
Leavenworth
 
WA
 
98826
 
RV
 
255
 
50
 

 
266
 
8
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,890
  
 
$
1,730
  

 Thunderbird Resort
 
26702 Ben Howard Rd
 
Monroe
 
WA
 
98272
 
RV
 
45
 
2
 

 
136
 
9
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,530
  
 
$
2,386
  

 Little Diamond
 
1002 McGowen Rd
 
Newport
 
WA
 
99156
 
RV
 
360
 
119
 

 
520
 
8
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,540
  
 
$
1,514
  

 Oceana Resort
 
2733 State Route 109
 
Oceana City
 
WA
 
98569
 
RV
 
16
 

 

 
84
 
5
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,752
  
 
$
1,526
  

 Crescent Bar Resort
 
9252 Crescent Bar Rd NW
 
Quincy
 
WA
 
98848
 
RV
 
14
 

 

 
115
 
6
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,749
  
 
$
2,664
  

 Long Beach
 
2215 Willows Rd
 
Seaview
 
WA
 
98644
 
RV
 
17
 

 

 
144
 
5
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,365
  
 
$
2,335
  

 Paradise Resort
 
173 Salem Plant Rd
 
Silver Creek
 
WA
 
98585
 
RV
 
60
 

 

 
214
 
10
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,034
  
 
$
1,636
  

 Cascade Resort (g)
 
34500 SE 99th St
 
Snoqualmie
 
WA
 
98065
 
RV
 
20
 

 

 
163
 
—  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Kloshe Illahee
 
2500 S. 370th Street
 
Federal Way
 
WA
 
98003
 
MH
 
50
 

 

 
258
 
258
 
 
98.4
% 
 
 
97.3
% 
 
$
9,099
  
 
$
9,054
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Northwest Market
 

 

 

 

 

 
2,689
 
391
 
347
 
7,016
 
2,310
 
 
91.9
% 
 
 
95.8
% 
 
$
6,228
  
 
$
6,296
  

 Texas
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 



 




 Bay Landing
 
2305 Highway 380 W
 
Bridgeport
 
TX
 
76426
 
RV
 
443
 
235
 

 
293
 
41
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,981
  
 
$
1,953
  

 Colorado River
 
1062 Thousand Trails Lane
 
Columbus
 
TX
 
78934
 
RV
 
218
 
51
 

 
132
 
22
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,939
  
 
$
2,771
  

 Lake Texoma
 
209 Thousand Trails Dr
 
Gordonville
 
TX
 
76245
 
RV
 
201
 
79
 

 
301
 
150
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,800
  
 
$
1,732
  

 Lakewood
 
4525 Graham Road
 
Harlingen
 
TX
 
78552
 
RV
 
30
 

 

 
301
 
116
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,024
  
 
$
1,976
  

 Paradise Park RV
 
1201 N. Expressway 77
 
Harlingen
 
TX
 
78552
 
RV
 
60
 

 

 
563
 
296
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,152
  
 
$
3,109
  

 Sunshine RV
 
1900 Grace Avenue
 
Harlingen
 
TX
 
78550
 
RV
 
84
 

 

 
1,027
 
413
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,505
  
 
$
2,543
  

 Tropic Winds
 
1501 N Loop 499
 
Harlingen
 
TX
 
78550
 
RV
 
112
 
74
 

 
531
 
143
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,964
  
 
$
1,794
  

 Medina Lake
 
215 Spettle Rd
 
Lakehills
 
TX
 
78063
 
RV
 
208
 
50
 

 
387
 
60
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,177
  
 
$
2,067
  

 Paradise South
 
9909 N. Mile 2 West Rd.
 
Mercedes
 
TX
 
78570
 
RV
 
49
 

 

 
493
 
193
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,111
  
 
$
2,137
  

 Lake Tawakoni
 
1246 Rains Co. Rd 1470
 
Point
 
TX
 
75472
 
RV
 
480
 
11
 

 
320
 
65
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,766
  
 
$
1,831
  

 Fun n Sun RV
 
1400 Zillock Rd
 
San Benito
 
TX
 
78586
 
RV
 
135
 
40
 

 
1,435
 
625
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,094
  
 
$
3,098
  

 Southern Comfort
 
1501 South Airport Drive
 
Weslaco
 
TX
 
78596
 
RV
 
40
 

 

 
403
 
336
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,747
  
 
$
2,707
  

 Country Sunshine
 
1601 South Airport Road
 
Weslaco
 
TX
 
78596
 
RV
 
37
 

 

 
390
 
183
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,782
  
 
$
2,714
  

 Lake Whitney
 
417 Thousand Trails Dr
 
Whitney
 
TX
 
76692
 
RV
 
403
 
158
 

 
261
 
35
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,367
  
 
$
2,305
  

 Lake Conroe
 
11720 Old Montgomery Rd
 
Willis
 
TX
 
77318
 
RV
 
129
 
30
 
300
 
363
 
117
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,602
  
 
$
3,595
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Texas Market
 

 

 

 

 

 
2,629
 
728
 
300
 
7,200
 
2,795
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,655
  
 
$
2,661
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Grand Total All Markets
 

 

 

 

 

 
38,134
 
5,263
 
8,457
 
138,057
 
98,512
 
 
91.4
% 
 
 
92.4
% 
 
$
5,600
  
 
$
5,471
  


 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
 Property acquired in 2011. 


(b)
 Land is leased by the Company under a non-cancelable operating lease. (See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in
this Form 10-K.) 


(c)
 Acres are approximate. Acreage for some Properties were estimated based upon 10 sites per acre. 


(d)
 Acres are approximate. There can be no assurance that developable acres will be developed. Development is contingent on many factors including, but
not limited to, cost, ability to subdivide, accessibility, infrastructure needs, zoning, entitlement and topography. 


(e)
 Expansion sites are approximate and only represent sites that could be developed and is further dependent upon necessary approvals. Certain
Properties with expansion sites noted may have vacancy and therefore, expansion sites may not be added. 


(f)
 Acres for this RV park are included in the acres for the adjacent manufactured home community listed directly above this Property.



(g)
 Property not operated by the Company during all of 2011. Property is leased to a third party operator or was closed for all or a portion of 2011.

  27 


Table of Contents


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  The legal proceedings disclosure is incorporated herein by reference from Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. 
 


Item 4.
[Removed and Reserved.] 
  28 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol ELS. On
February 27, 2012, the reported closing price per share of ELS common stock on the NYSE was $67.41 and there were approximately 12,554 beneficial holders of record. The high and low sales prices and closing sales prices on the NYSE and
distributions for the Company’s common stock during 2011 and 2010 are set forth in the table below:   




















 
  
Close
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
DistributionsDeclared
 

 2011
  



  



  



  




 1st Quarter
  
$
57.65
  
  
$
58.35
  
  
$
54.35
  
  
 
0.375
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
62.44
  
  
 
64.92
  
  
 
55.83
  
  
 
0.375
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
62.70
  
  
 
73.27
  
  
 
56.27
  
  
 
0.375
  

 4th Quarter
  
 
66.69
  
  
 
67.27
  
  
 
58.37
  
  
 
0.375
  







 
  
Close
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
DistributionsDeclared
 

 2010
  



  



  



  




 1st Quarter
  
$
53.88
  
  
$
54.95
  
  
$
46.01
  
  
 
0.300
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
48.23
  
  
 
58.51
  
  
 
46.65
  
  
 
0.300
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
54.48
  
  
 
56.26
  
  
 
46.63
  
  
 
0.300
  

 4th Quarter
  
 
55.93
  
  
 
59.51
  
  
 
53.05
  
  
 
0.300
  
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
 
















 Period
  
Total Number 
ofSharesPurchased (a)
 
  
Average Price Paidper Share
(a)
 
  
Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plans 
or Programs
  
Maximum Number ofShares that May Yetbe Purchased Underthe Plans
orPrograms

 10/1/11 —10/31/11
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
None
  
None

 11/1/11 —11/30/11
  
 
376
  
  
$
62.77
  
  
None
  
None

 12/1/11 — 12/31/11
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
None
  
None
  


(a) 
 Of the common stock repurchased from October 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011, 376 shares were repurchased at the open market price and
represent common stock surrendered to the Company to satisfy income tax withholding obligations due as a result of the vesting of Restricted Share Grants. Certain executive officers of the Company may from time to time adopt non-discretionary,
written trading plans that comply with Commission Rule 10b5-1, or otherwise monetize their equity-based compensation. Commission Rule 10b5-1 provides executives with a method to monetize their equity-based compensation in an automatic and
non-discretionary manner over time. 
  29 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data  The following table sets forth selected financial and operating information on a historical basis. The historical operating data has been derived from the historical financial statements of the Company.
The following information should be read in conjunction with all of the financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Consolidated Historical Financial
Information  (Amounts in thousands, except for per share and property data) 
 
























 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 



 



 




 Community base rental income
  
$
318,851
  
 
$
259,351
  
 
$
253,379
  
 
$
245,833
  
 
$
236,933
  

 Resort base rental income
  
 
130,489
  
 
 
129,481
  
 
 
124,822
  
 
 
111,876
  
 
 
102,372
  

 Right-to-use annual payments (1)
  
 
49,122
  
 
 
49,831
  
 
 
50,765
  
 
 
19,667
  
 
 
—  
  

 Right-to-use contracts current period, gross
(1)
  
 
17,856
  
 
 
19,496
  
 
 
21,526
  
 
 
10,951
  
 
 
—  
  

 Right-to-use contracts, deferred, net of prior period amortization(1)
  
 
(11,936
) 
 
 
(14,856
) 
 
 
(18,882
) 
 
 
(10,611
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Utility and other income
  
 
53,843
  
 
 
48,357
  
 
 
47,685
  
 
 
41,633
  
 
 
36,849
  

 Gross revenues from home sales
  
 
6,088
  
 
 
6,120
  
 
 
7,136
  
 
 
21,845
  
 
 
33,333
  

 Brokered resale revenues, net
  
 
806
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
758
  
 
 
1,094
  
 
 
1,528
  

 Ancillary services revenues, net
  
 
1,502
  
 
 
2,504
  
 
 
2,745
  
 
 
1,197
  
 
 
2,436
  

 Interest income
  
 
7,000
  
 
 
4,419
  
 
 
5,119
  
 
 
3,095
  
 
 
1,732
  

 Income from other investments, net (2)
  
 
6,452
  
 
 
5,740
  
 
 
8,168
  
 
 
17,006
  
 
 
22,476
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
580,073
  
 
 
511,361
  
 
 
503,221
  
 
 
463,586
  
 
 
437,659
  

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Property operating and maintenance
  
 
200,623
  
 
 
185,786
  
 
 
180,870
  
 
 
152,363
  
 
 
127,342
  

 Real estate taxes
  
 
37,619
  
 
 
32,110
  
 
 
31,674
  
 
 
29,457
  
 
 
27,429
  

 Sales and marketing, gross (1)
  
 
11,219
  
 
 
12,606
  
 
 
13,536
  
 
 
7,116
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sales and marketing, deferred commissions, net
(1)
  
 
(4,789
) 
 
 
(5,525
) 
 
 
(5,729
) 
 
 
(3,644
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Property management
  
 
35,076
  
 
 
32,639
  
 
 
33,383
  
 
 
25,451
  
 
 
18,385
  

 Depreciation on real estate and other costs
  
 
79,981
  
 
 
68,125
  
 
 
69,049
  
 
 
66,193
  
 
 
63,554
  

 Amortization of in-place leases (3)
  
 
28,479
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cost of home sales
  
 
5,683
  
 
 
5,396
  
 
 
7,471
  
 
 
24,069
  
 
 
30,713
  

 Home selling expenses
  
 
1,589
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
2,383
  
 
 
5,776
  
 
 
7,555
  

 General and administrative
  
 
23,833
  
 
 
22,559
  
 
 
22,279
  
 
 
20,617
  
 
 
15,591
  

 Transaction costs (3)
  
 
18,493
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Rent control initiatives
  
 
1,009
  
 
 
1,120
  
 
 
456
  
 
 
1,555
  
 
 
2,657
  

 Impairment (4)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,635
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Depreciation on corporate assets
  
 
1,034
  
 
 
1,080
  
 
 
1,039
  
 
 
390
  
 
 
437
  

 Interest and related amortization
  
 
99,668
  
 
 
91,151
  
 
 
98,311
  
 
 
99,430
  
 
 
103,070
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
539,517
  
 
 
452,760
  
 
 
454,722
  
 
 
428,773
  
 
 
396,733
  

 Income before equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures
  
 
40,556
  
 
 
58,601
  
 
 
48,499
  
 
 
34,813
  
 
 
40,926
  

 Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures
  
 
1,948
  
 
 
2,027
  
 
 
2,896
  
 
 
3,753
  
 
 
2,696
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated income from continuing operations
  
 
42,504
  
 
 
60,628
  
 
 
51,395
  
 
 
38,566
  
 
 
43,622
  

 Discontinued Operations:
  



 



 



 



 




 Discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
257
  
 
 
289
  

 (Loss) income from real estate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
4,685
  
 
 
(79
) 
 
 
12,036
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income from discontinued operation
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
4,866
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
12,325
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income
  
 
42,504
  
 
 
60,397
  
 
 
56,261
  
 
 
38,744
  
 
 
55,947
  

 Income allocated to non-controlling interests - Common OP Units
  
 
(3,105
) 
 
 
(5,903
) 
 
 
(6,113
) 
 
 
(4,297
) 
 
 
(7,705
) 

 Income allocated to non-controlling interests - Perpetual Preferred OP Units
  
 
(2,801
) 
 
 
(16,140
) 
 
 
(16,143
) 
 
 
(16,144
) 
 
 
(16,140
) 

 Series A Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock
Dividends(5)
  
 
(13,357
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
(466
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income available for Common Shares
  
$
22,775
  
 
$
38,354
  
 
$
34,005
  
 
$
18,303
  
 
$
32,102
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  30 


Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Consolidated Historical Financial Information  (continued)  (Amounts in thousands, except for per share and property data)
  
 
























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 

 Earnings per Common Share—Basic:
  



  



  



  



  




 Income from continuing operations available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
  
$
1.26
  
  
$
1.08
  
  
$
0.74
  
  
$
0.92
  

 Income from discontinued operation
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
0.15
  
  
$
0.01
  
  
$
0.41
  

 Net income available for Common Share
  
$
0.64
  
  
$
1.26
  
  
$
1.23
  
  
$
0.75
  
  
$
1.33
  

 Earnings per Common Share—Fully Diluted:
  



  



  



  



  




 Income from continuing operations available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
  
$
1.25
  
  
$
1.07
  
  
$
0.74
  
  
$
0.90
  

 Income from discontinued operation
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
0.15
  
  
$
0.01
  
  
$
0.41
  

 Net income available for Common Share
  
$
0.64
  
  
$
1.25
  
  
$
1.22
  
  
$
0.75
  
  
$
1.31
  

 Distributions declared per Common Share outstanding
  
$
1.50
  
  
$
1.20
  
  
$
1.10
  
  
$
0.80
  
  
$
0.60
  

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—basic
  
 
35,591
  
  
 
30,517
  
  
 
27,582
  
  
 
24,466
  
  
 
24,089
  

 Weighted average Common OP Units outstanding
  
 
4,413
  
  
 
4,730
  
  
 
5,075
  
  
 
5,674
  
  
 
5,870
  

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—fully diluted
  
 
40,330
  
  
 
35,518
  
  
 
32,944
  
  
 
30,498
  
  
 
30,414
  

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



  



  




 Real estate, before accumulated depreciation (6)
  
$
4,079,373
  
  
$
2,584,987
  
  
$
2,538,215
  
  
$
2,491,021
  
  
$
2,396,115
  

 Total assets
  
 
3,496,101
  
  
 
2,048,395
  
  
 
2,166,319
  
  
 
2,091,647
  
  
 
2,033,695
  

 Total mortgages and term loan
  
 
2,284,683
  
  
 
1,412,919
  
  
 
1,547,901
  
  
 
1,662,403
  
  
 
1,659,392
  

 Non-controlling interest (5)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
200,000
  
  
 
200,000
  
  
 
200,000
  
  
 
200,000
  

 Series A Preferred Stock (5)
  
 
200,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Total equity (7)
  
 
799,280
  
  
 
260,158
  
  
 
254,427
  
  
 
96,234
  
  
 
88,717
  

 Other Data:
  



  



  



  



  




 Funds from operations (8)
  
$
143,182
  
  
$
123,162
  
  
$
118,082
  
  
$
97,615
  
  
$
92,752
  

 Total Properties (at end of period)
(3)
  
 
382
  
  
 
307
  
  
 
304
  
  
 
309
  
  
 
311
  

 Total sites (at end of period) (3)
  
 
141,132
  
  
 
111,002
  
  
 
110,575
  
  
 
112,211
  
  
 
112,779
  
  


(1)
 New activity
starting on August 14, 2008 due to the acquisition of the operations of Privileged Access, LP (“Privileged Access”). 


(2) 
 Between November 10, 2004 and August 13, 2008, Income from other investments, net included rental income from the lease of membership
Properties to Thousand Trails (“TT”) or its subsequent owner, Privileged Access. On August 14, 2008, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of Privileged Access, which included the operations of
TT. The lease of membership Properties to TT was terminated upon closing. As a result of the lease termination, beginning August 14, 2008, Income from other investments, net no longer included rental income from the lease of membership
Properties. (See Note 2(n) in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.) 


(3) 
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company acquired a portfolio of 74 manufactured home communities and one RV resort (the
“Acquisition Properties”) containing 30,129 sites on approximately 6,400 acres located in 16 states and certain manufactured homes and loans secured by manufactured homes located at the Acquisition Properties which the Company refers
to as the “Home Related Assets.” (See Note 
  31 


Table of Contents


 
 
19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion on the Acquisition.) The in-place leases acquired in the Acquisition have an estimated
useful life of one-year. Transaction costs consist primarily of the following costs incurred related to the Acquistion: seller’s debt defeasance costs, transfer tax, professional fees, and costs related to due diligence items such as title,
survey, zoning and environmental. 


(4) 
 Represents a non-cash charge related to the write-off of goodwill of approximately $3.6 million. The goodwill was recorded in connection with
the Company’s August 2009 acquisition of a small Florida internet and media based advertising business. 


(5) 
 On March 4, 2011, the Company, on behalf of selling stockholders, closed on a public offering of 8.0 million shares of Series A Preferred
Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, at a price of $24.75 per share. The selling stockholders received the Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for $200 million of previously issued series D and series F
Perpetual Preferred OP Units. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have preference rights with respect to liquidation and distributions over the common stock. The Company has the option at any time to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at a
redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the offering. 


(6) 
 The Company believes that the book value of the Properties, which reflects the historical costs of such real estate assets less accumulated
depreciation, is less than the current market value of the Properties. 


(7) 
 On June 7, 2011, the Company issued 6,037,500 shares of common stock in an equity offering for proceeds of approximately $344.0 million, net of
offering costs. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued 1,708,276 shares of Common Stock and 1,740,000 shares of Series B Subordinated Non-Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”) with an
aggregate value of $224.2 million, net of offering costs, to partially fund the Acquisition, which is discussed in more detail in Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K. All of the Series B
Preferred Stock was redeemed for Common Stock prior to December 31, 2011. On June 29, 2009, the Company issued 4.6 million shares of common stock in an equity offering for proceeds of approximately $146.4 million, net of offering
costs. 


(8) 
 Refer to Item 7 contained in this Form 10-K for information regarding why the Company presents funds from operations and for a reconciliation
of this non-GAAP financial measure to net income. 
  32 


Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with “Selected Financial Data” and the historical
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  2011 Accomplishments 
 


 
•
 
 Closed on the acquisition of 74 manufactured home communities and one RV resort for a purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion including assumed
debt. The newly acquired properties were located in 16 states and contain 30,129 sites. (See Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion on the Acquisition.)
  


 
•
 
 Issued 6.0 million shares of common stock in an equity offering for proceeds of approximately $344.0 million, net of offering costs.
  


 
•
 
 Closed on approximately $200.0 million of secured financing with a weighted average interest rate of 5.02% per annum maturing in 2021.
  


 
•
 
 Closed on a $200.0 million term loan that matures on June 30, 2017. 
 


 
•
 
 Amended the Company’s Line of Credit to increase the borrowing capacity from $100 million to $380 million and extended the maturity date to
September 18, 2015.   


 
•
 
 Raised the annual dividend to $1.50 per share in 2011, up from $1.20 per share in 2010. 
Overview and Outlook  Occupancy in the Company’s Properties as well as its ability to increase rental rates directly affects revenues. The Company’s revenue streams are predominantly derived from customers renting
its sites on a long-term basis.  The Company has approximately 95,100 annual sites, approximately 9,000
seasonal sites, which are leased to customers generally for three to six months, and approximately 9,700 transient sites, occupied by customers who lease sites on a short-term basis. The revenue from seasonal and transient sites is generally higher
during the first and third quarters. The Company expects to service over 100,000 customers at its transient sites and the Company considers this revenue stream to be its most volatile as it is subject to weather conditions, gas prices, and other
factors affecting the marginal RV customer’s vacation and travel preferences. Finally, the Company has approximately 24,300 sites designated as right-to-use sites, which are primarily utilized to service the approximately 105,000 customers who
have right-to-use contracts. The Company also has interests in Properties containing approximately 3,100 sites for which revenue is classified as Equity in income from unconsolidated joint ventures in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
  








 
  
Total Sites as ofDec. 31, 2011
 

 Community sites
  
 
74,100
  

 Resort sites:
  




 Annual
  
 
21,000
  

 Seasonal
  
 
9,000
  

 Transient
  
 
9,700
  

 Right-to-use (1)
  
 
24,300
  

 Joint Ventures (2)
  
 
3,100
  


  
  
  
 


  
 
141,200
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Includes approximately 3,000 sites rented on an annual basis. 


(2) 
 Joint Venture income is included in Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures. 
  33 


Table of Contents
A significant portion of the Company’s rental agreements on community
sites are directly or indirectly tied to published CPI statistics that are issued during June through September each year. The Company currently expects its 2012 Core community base rental income to increase approximately 2.3% as compared to 2011.
The Company has already notified 75% of its community site customers of rent increases reflecting this revenue growth.  The Company believes that the disruption in the site-built housing market is contributing to the low new home sales volumes it is experiencing as potential customers are not able to sell their existing
site-built homes. Customers have also become more price sensitive, which is reflected in an increase in used home sale volumes.  In this environment, the Company believes that customer demand for rentals, which do not require a down payment, is high. The Company is adapting to this by renting its vacant new homes. This may
represent an attractive source of occupancy if the Company can convert renters to new homebuyers in the future. The Company is also focusing on smaller, more energy efficient and more affordable homes in its manufactured home Properties. 
The Company’s manufactured home rental operations have been increasing since 2007. For the year ended
December 31, 2011, occupied manufactured home rentals increased to 4,423, or 387.7%, from 907 for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net operating income increased to approximately $23.1 million in 2011 from approximately $5.9 million
in 2007. The Company believes that unlike the home sales business, at this time the Company competes effectively with other types of rentals (i.e. apartments). The Company is currently evaluating whether it wants to continue to invest in additional
rental units.  In the Company’s resort Properties, the Company continues to work on extending customer
stays. The Company has had success lengthening customer stays.  The Company has introduced low-cost membership
products that focus on the installed base of almost eight million RV owners. Such products may include right-to-use contracts that entitle the customer to use certain properties (the “Agreements”). The Company is offering a Zone Park Pass
(“ZPP”), which can be purchased for one to four zones of the United States and requires annual payments of $499. This replaces high cost products that were sold at Properties after tours and lengthy sales presentations. The Company
historically incurred significant costs to generate leads, conduct tours and make the sales presentations.  A
single zone pass requires no upfront payment while passes for additional zones require modest upfront payments. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company sold approximately 7,500 ZPP’s. 
Existing customers may be offered an upgrade Agreement from time-to-time. The upgrade Agreement is currently
distinguishable from a new Agreement that a customer would enter into by (1) increased length of consecutive stay by 50% (i.e. up to 21 days); (2) ability to make earlier advance reservations; (3) discounts on rental units and
(4) access to additional Properties, which may include discounts at non-membership RV Properties. Each upgrade requires a nonrefundable upfront payment. The Company may finance the nonrefundable upfront payment under any Agreement. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Property Acquisitions, Joint Ventures and Dispositions 
The following chart lists the Properties or portfolios acquired, invested in, or sold since January 1, 2010:
  










Property
  
Transaction Date
  
Sites
 

 Total Sites as of January 1, 2010
  

  
 
110,575
  

 Property or Portfolio (# of Properties in parentheses):
  

  




 Acquisitions:
  

  




 Desert Vista (1)
  
 April 21, 2010
  
 
125
  

 St. George (1)
  
 April 21, 2010
  
 
123
  

 Tall Chief (1)
  
 April 21, 2010
  
 
180
  

 Valley Vista (1)
  
 April 21, 2010
  
 
145
  

 Acquisition Properties (35)
  
 July 1, 2011
  
 
12,044
  

 Acquisition Properties (16)
  
 August 1, 2011
  
 
7,817
  

 Acquisition Properties (7)
  
 September 1, 2011
  
 
3,105
  

 Acquisition Properties (2)
  
 October 3, 2011
  
 
1,573
  

 Acquisition Properties (1)
  
 October 11, 2011
  
 
521
  

 Acquisition Properties (7)
  
 October 21, 2011
  
 
2,810
  

 Acquisition Properties (7)
  
 December 7, 2011
  
 
2,259
  

 Expansion Site Development and other:
  

  




 Sites added (reconfigured) in 2010
  

  
 
19
  

 Sites added (reconfigured) in 2011
  

  
 
1
  

 Dispositions:
  

  




 Creekside (1)
  
 January 10, 2010
  
 
(165
) 


  

  
  
  
 

 Total Sites as of December 31, 2011
  

  
 
141,132
  


  

  
  
  
 
 Since January 1, 2010 the gross investment in real estate increased from $2,538
million to $4,079 million as of December 31, 2011, due primarily to the aforementioned acquisitions and dispositions of Properties during the period.  Markets  The following table identifies the
Company’s largest markets by number of sites and provides information regarding the Company’s Properties (excluding five Properties owned through Joint Ventures). 
 




















 Major Market
  
Number ofProperties
 
  
Total Sites
 
  
Percent ofTotal Sites
 
 
Percent of TotalProperty OperatingRevenues (1)
 

 Florida
  
 
117
  
  
 
50,959
  
  
 
36.9
% 
 
 
38.5
% 

 Northeast
  
 
66
  
  
 
23,703
  
  
 
17.2
% 
 
 
3.6
% 

 Arizona
  
 
39
  
  
 
13,853
  
  
 
10.0
% 
 
 
10.8
% 

 California
  
 
48
  
  
 
13,739
  
  
 
10.0
% 
 
 
17.8
% 

 Midwest
  
 
47
  
  
 
16,746
  
  
 
12.1
% 
 
 
16.7
% 

 Texas
  
 
15
  
  
 
7,200
  
  
 
5.2
% 
 
 
2.9
% 

 Northwest
  
 
25
  
  
 
5,808
  
  
 
4.2
% 
 
 
3.5
% 

 Colorado
  
 
10
  
  
 
3,454
  
  
 
2.5
% 
 
 
3.6
% 

 Other
  
 
10
  
  
 
2,595
  
  
 
1.9
% 
 
 
2.6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
377
  
  
 
138,057
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Property operating revenues for this calculation excludes approximately $19.1 million of property operating revenue not allocated to Properties,
which consists primarily of upfront payments from right-to-use contracts. 
  35 


Table of Contents
2011 Acquisition Disclosure 
On May 31, 2011, the Company’s operating partnership entered into purchase and other agreements (the
“Purchase Agreements”) to acquire a portfolio of 75 manufactured home communities and one RV resort (the “Acquisition Properties”) containing 31,167 sites on approximately 6,500 acres located in 16 states (primarily located
in Florida and the northeastern region of the United States) and certain manufactured homes and loans secured by manufactured homes located at the Acquisition Properties which the Company refers to as the “Home Related Assets” and
collectively with the Acquisition Properties, as the “Acquisition Portfolio,” for a stated purchase price of $1.43 billion (the “Acquisition”). The Company completed the acquisition of 75 Acquisition Properties, containing
30,129 sites, during the six months ended December 31, 2011. Total transaction costs associated with the Acquisition for the year ended December 31, 2011 were approximately $18.5 million. 
The purchase price of the Acquisition was funded primarily through: 
 


 
•
 
 the net proceeds of approximately $344.0 million from the Company’s June 2011 public offering of 6,037,500 shares of common stock;
  


 
•
 
 the assumption by the Company of fixed-rate, non-recourse mortgage indebtedness secured by 35 of the Acquisition Properties of approximately $515.0
million, with stated interest rates ranging from 4.65% to 8.87% per annum and maturity dates ranging from 2012 to 2023;   


 
•
 
 the Company’s issuance to the seller of: (i) 1,708,276 shares of the Company’s common stock, and (ii) 1,740,000 shares
of Series B Preferred Stock which in the Purchase Agreements have a stipulated aggregate value of $200.0 million;   


 
•
 
 $200.0 million of mortgage notes payable through two 10-year secured financings the Company entered into during the three months ended
September 30, 2011 with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.02% per annum (see Note 8 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for a description of the mortgage notes payable.); and
  


 
•
 
 a $200.0 million senior unsecured term loan (the “Term Loan”) entered into on July 1, 2011 that matures on June 30, 2017
and has a one-year extension option, an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.85% to 2.80% per annum and, subject to certain conditions, may be prepaid at any time without premium or penalty after July 1, 2014 (see Note 8 in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-k for a description of the Term Loan.)  The terms of the Purchase Agreement provided for a July 1, 2011 closing for one remaining Acquisition Property in Michigan, and as a result of underwriting issues related to the property the Company
and seller agreed that the Company’s acquisition of the Michigan property would be deemed terminated. The Company is continuing to perform due diligence on the Michigan property, but there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire the
property. (See Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.)  Critical Accounting Policies
and Estimates  The Company’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with U.S. GAAP, which requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosures. The Company believes that the following critical accounting
policies, among others, affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. 
Long-Lived Assets  For business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009, the purchase price of Properties is determined in accordance the Codification Topic “Business
Combinations” (“FASB ASC 805”) 
  36 


Table of Contents

which requires the Company to recognize all the assets acquired and all the liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions. The Company also
expenses transaction costs as they are incurred. Certain purchase price adjustments may be made within one year following any acquisition and applied retroactively to the date of acquisition. 
In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources,
including independent appraisals that may be available in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective Property and other market data. The Company also considers information obtained about each Property as a result of its due
diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired.  Real estate is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company generally uses a 30-year
estimated life for buildings acquired and structural and land improvements (including site development), a ten-year estimated life for building upgrades and a five-year estimated life for furniture, fixtures and equipment and a one year life applied
for acquired in-place leases. New rental units are generally depreciated using a 20-year estimated life from each model year down to a salvage value of 40% of the original costs. Used rental units are generally depreciated based on the estimated
life of the unit with no estimated salvage value.  Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are
expensed to operations as incurred, and significant renovations and improvements that improve the asset and extend the useful life of the asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life. 
The values of above-and below-market leases are amortized and recorded as either an increase (in the case of below-market
leases) or a decrease (in the case of above-market leases) to rental income over the remaining term of the associated lease. The value associated with in-place leases is amortized over the expected term, which includes an estimated probability of
lease renewal.  The Company accounts for its Properties held for disposition in accordance with the
Codification Sub-Topic “Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets” (“FASB ASC 360-10-35”). The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets to be held and used, including its investments in real estate, for impairment
indicators. The Company’s judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions and legal factors. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude
that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.  For long-lived assets to be held and
used, if an impairment indicator exists, the Company compares the expected future undiscounted cash flows against the carrying amount of that asset. If the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset,
the Company would record an impairment loss if the estimated fair value is less than the carrying amount of the asset.  For Properties to be disposed of, an impairment loss is recognized when the fair value of the Property, less the estimated cost to sell, is less than the carrying amount of the Property measured at the
time the Company has made a decision to dispose of the property, has a commitment to sell the Property and/or is actively marketing the Property for sale. A Property to be disposed of is reported at the lower of its carrying amount or its estimated
fair value, less costs to sell. Subsequent to the date that a Property is held for disposition, depreciation expense is not recorded in accordance with FASB ASC 360-10-35. Accordingly, the results of operations for all assets sold or held for sale
have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented.  Revenue Recognition 
The Company accounts for leases with its customers as operating leases. Rental income is recognized over the term of the
respective lease or the length of a customer’s stay, the majority of which are for a term of not 
  37 


Table of Contents

greater than one year. The Company will reserve for receivables when it believes the ultimate collection is less than probable. The Company’s provision for uncollectible rents receivable was
approximately $4.4 million and $3.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.  The Company accounts for the upfront payment related to the entry or upgrade of right-to-use contracts in accordance with the Codification Topic “Revenue Recognition” (“FASB ASC 605”).
A right-to-use contract gives the customer the right to a set schedule of usage at a specified group of Properties. Customers may choose to upgrade their contracts to increase their usage and the number of Properties they may access. A contract
requires the customer to make annual payments during the term of the contract and may require an upfront nonrefundable payment. The stated term of a right-to-use contract is at least one year and the customer may renew his contract by continuing to
make the annual payments. The Company will recognize the upfront non-refundable payments over the estimated customer life which, based on historical attrition rates, the Company has estimated to be from one to 31 years. For example, the Company
has currently estimated that 7.9% of customers who enter a new right-to-use contract will terminate their contract after five years. Therefore, the upfront nonrefundable payments from 7.9% of the contracts entered in any particular period are
amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of five years as five years is the estimated customer life for 7.9% of the Company’s customers who enter a contract. The historical attrition rates for upgrade contracts are lower than for new
contracts, and therefore, the nonrefundable upfront payments for upgrade contracts are amortized at a different rate than for new contracts. The decision to recognize this revenue in accordance with FASB ASC 605 was made after corresponding during
September and October of 2008 with the Office of the Chief Accountant at the SEC.  Right-to-use annual
payments by customers under the terms of the right-to-use contracts are deferred and recognized ratably over the one-year period in which the services are provided. 
Income from home sales is recognized when the earnings process is complete. The earnings process is complete when the
home has been delivered, the purchaser has accepted the home and title has transferred.  Stock-Based Compensation 
The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with the Codification Topic “Stock Compensation”
(“FASB ASC 718”). The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton formula to estimate the value of stock options granted to employees, consultants and directors.  Non-controlling Interests  In December 2007, the FASB
issued the Codification Topic “Consolidation,” an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (“FASB ASC 810”). FASB ASC 810 seeks to improve uniformity and transparency in reporting of the net income attributable to
non-controlling interests in the consolidated financial statements of the reporting entity. The statement requires, among other provisions, the disclosure, clear labeling and presentation of non-controlling interests in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations. Per FASB ASC 810, a non-controlling interest is the portion of equity (net assets) in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent. The ownership interests in the subsidiary
that are held by owners other than the parent are non-controlling interests. Under FASB ASC 810, such non-controlling interests are reported on the consolidated balance sheets within equity, separately from the Company’s equity. However,
securities that are redeemable for cash or other assets at the option of the holder, not solely within the control of the issuer, must be classified outside of permanent equity. This would result in certain outside ownership interests being included
as redeemable non-controlling interests outside of permanent equity in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company makes this determination based on terms in applicable agreements, specifically in relation to redemption provisions. Additionally,
with respect to non-controlling interests for which the Company has a choice to settle the contract by delivery of its own shares, the Company considered the guidance in the Codification Topic “Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in
Entity’s Own Equity” (“FASB ASC 815-40”) to evaluate whether it controls the actions or events necessary to issue the maximum number of shares that could be required to be delivered under share settlement of the contract.

  38 


Table of Contents
In accordance with FASB ASC 810, the Company presents the non-controlling
interest for Common OP Units in the Equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. The caption Common OP Units on the consolidated balance sheets also includes $0.5 million of private REIT Subsidiaries preferred stock. The Company’s
Perpetual Preferred OP Units are presented in the mezzanine section on the consolidated balance sheets.  Notes Receivable 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company purchased Chattel Loans that were recorded at fair value at the
time of acquisition under the Codification Topic “Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality” (“FASB ASC 310-30”). (See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form
10-K for a detailed description of our recent Acquisition.) The fair value of these Chattel Loans includes an estimate of losses that are expected to be incurred over the estimated remaining lives of the receivables, and therefore no allowance for
losses was recorded for these Chattel Loans as of the transaction date. The fair value is estimated based on a number of factors including customer delinquency status, FICO scores, the original down payment amount and below-market stated interest
rates. Through December 31, 2011, the credit performance of these Chattel Loans has generally been consistent with the assumptions used in determining its initial fair value, and the Company’s original expectations regarding the amounts
and timing of future cash flows has not changed. A probable decrease in management’s expectation of future cash collections related to these Chattel Loans could result in the need to record an allowance for credit losses in the future. Due to
the size of the Chattel Loan pool and maturity dates ranging up to 29 years, future credit losses or changes to interest income could be significant. (See Notes 2(h) and 7 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form
10-K.)  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements with any unconsolidated investments or joint ventures that it believes have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on its financial
condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2010-06, “Improving Disclosures about
Fair Value Measurements” (“ASU 2010-06”), which expands required disclosures related to an entity’s fair value measurements. Certain provisions of ASU 2010-06 were effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning
after December 15, 2009, and the Company adopted those provisions as of January 1, 2010. The remaining provisions, which were effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010, require additional
disclosures related to purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in an entity’s reconciliation of recurring level three investments. The Company adopted the final provisions of ASU 2010-06 as of January 1, 2011. The adoption of ASU
2010-06 did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  In December 2010, FASB issued
ASU No. 2010-29, “Business Combinations (Topic 805): Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations.” This ASU specifies that when financial statements are presented, the revenue and earnings of the
combined entity should be disclosed as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. ASU No. 2010-29 is effective for business
combinations with acquisition dates on or after January 1, 2011. The adoption of this update increased the required disclosures for the Company’s Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements by requiring the Company to disclose pro forma
information. (See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.)  In
December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-28, “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying

  39 


Table of Contents

Amounts.” This ASU requires that reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill
impairment exists. ASU No. 2010-28 is effective for the Company beginning with this interim period. The adoption of this update did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common
Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” This ASU is intended to eliminate differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS for fair value measurement and reporting. ASU No. 2011-04 is effective for the Company
beginning the first quarter of 2012. The Company has not yet determined the impact, if any, that the adoption of ASU 2011-04 will have on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05 “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive
Income.” ASU No. 2011-05 amends current guidance found in FASB ASC 220, “Comprehensive Income.” ASU No. 2011-05 requires entities to present comprehensive income in either: (i) one continuous financial statement or
(ii) two separate but consecutive statements that display net income and the components of other comprehensive income. Totals and individual components of both net income and other comprehensive income must be included in either presentation.
ASU No. 2011-05 is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2012. The Company plans to apply the provisions of this guidance once adopted. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” (“ASU
2011-08”). ASU 2011-08 amends current guidance to allow an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under this amendment an entity would not
be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. ASU 2011-08 applies to all companies
that have goodwill reported in their financial statements. The provisions of ASU 2011-08 are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this update did not have an impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements as the Company has chosen not to adopt this guidance early. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Results of Operations  Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2011 to Year Ended December 31, 2010  The following table summarizes certain financial and statistical data for the Property Operations for all Properties owned and operated for the same period in both years (“Core Portfolio”) and
the Total Portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (amounts in thousands). The Core Portfolio may change from time-to-time depending on acquisitions, dispositions and significant transactions or unique situations. The Core
Portfolio in this comparison of the year ended December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2010 includes all Properties acquired on or prior to December 31, 2009 and which were owned and operated by the Company during the years ended
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Growth percentages exclude the impact of GAAP deferrals of up-front payments from right-to-use contracts entered and related commissions. 
 




































 
  
Core Portfolio
 
 
Total Portfolio
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Increase /(Decrease)
 
 
%Change
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Increase /(Decrease)
 
 
%Change
 

 Community base rental income
  
$
266,584
  
  
$
259,292
  
  
$
7,292
  
 
 
2.8
% 
 
$
318,851
  
  
$
259,351
  
  
$
59,500
  
 
 
22.9
% 

 Resort base rental income
  
 
129,978
  
  
 
129,241
  
  
 
737
  
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
130,489
  
  
 
129,481
  
  
 
1,008
  
 
 
0.8
% 

 Right-to-use annual payment
  
 
49,050
  
  
 
49,788
  
  
 
(738
) 
 
 
(1.5
%) 
 
 
49,122
  
  
 
49,831
  
  
 
(709
) 
 
 
(1.4
%) 

 Right-to-use contracts current period, gross
  
 
17,856
  
  
 
19,496
  
  
 
(1,640
) 
 
 
(8.4
%) 
 
 
17,856
  
  
 
19,496
  
  
 
(1,640
) 
 
 
(8.4
%) 

 Utility and other income
  
 
49,406
  
  
 
48,288
  
  
 
1,118
  
 
 
2.3
% 
 
 
53,843
  
  
 
48,357
  
  
 
5,486
  
 
 
11.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property operating revenues, excluding deferrals
  
 
512,874
  
  
 
506,105
  
  
 
6,769
  
 
 
1.3
% 
 
 
570,161
  
  
 
506,516
  
  
 
63,645
  
 
 
12.6
% 

 Property operating and maintenance
  
 
185,799
  
  
 
185,148
  
  
 
651
  
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
200,623
  
  
 
185,786
  
  
 
14,837
  
 
 
8.0
% 

 Real estate taxes
  
 
32,055
  
  
 
32,042
  
  
 
13
  
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
37,619
  
  
 
32,110
  
  
 
5,509
  
 
 
17.2
% 

 Sales and marketing, gross
  
 
11,214
  
  
 
12,606
  
  
 
(1,392
) 
 
 
(11.0
%) 
 
 
11,219
  
  
 
12,606
  
  
 
(1,387
) 
 
 
(11.0
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property operating expenses, excluding deferrals and Property management
  
 
229,068
  
  
 
229,796
  
  
 
(728
) 
 
 
(0.3
%) 
 
 
249,461
  
  
 
230,502
  
  
 
18,959
  
 
 
8.2
% 

 Income from property operations, excluding deferrals and Property management
  
 
283,806
  
  
 
276,309
  
  
 
7,497
  
 
 
2.7
% 
 
 
320,700
  
  
 
276,014
  
  
 
44,686
  
 
 
16.2
% 

 Property management
  
 
33,118
  
  
 
32,658
  
  
 
460
  
 
 
1.4
% 
 
 
35,076
  
  
 
32,639
  
  
 
2,437
  
 
 
7.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from property operations, excluding deferrals
  
$
250,688
  
  
$
243,651
  
  
$
7,037
  
 
 
2.9
% 
 
$
285,624
  
  
$
243,375
  
  
$
42,249
  
 
 
17.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Property Operating Revenues 
The 1.3% increase in the Core Portfolio property operating revenues primarily reflects (i) a 2.2% increase in rates
in community base rental income and a 0.6% increase in occupancy (ii) a 0.6% increase in revenues in core resort base income, as described in the table below and (iii) a decrease of 8.4% in right-to-use contracts. The reduction in entry of
right-to-use contracts is due to the Company’s introduction of low-cost membership products in 2010 and the phase-out of memberships with higher initial upfront payments.  Resort base rental income is comprised of the following (amounts in thousands):   




































 
  
Core Portfolio
 
 
Total Portfolio
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
 
 
% Change
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
 
 
% Change
 

 Annual
  
$
83,252
  
  
$
79,829
  
  
$
3,423
  
 
 
4.3
% 
 
$
83,329
  
  
$
79,842
  
  
$
3,487
  
 
 
4.4
% 

 Seasonal
  
 
20,527
  
  
 
21,579
  
  
 
(1,052
) 
 
 
(4.9
%) 
 
 
20,717
  
  
 
21,598
  
  
 
(881
) 
 
 
(4.1
%) 

 Transient
  
 
26,199
  
  
 
27,833
  
  
 
(1,634
) 
 
 
(5.9
%) 
 
 
26,443
  
  
 
28,041
  
  
 
(1,598
) 
 
 
(5.7
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Resort base rental income
  
$
129,978
  
  
$
129,241
  
  
$
737
  
 
 
0.6
% 
 
$
130,489
  
  
$
129,481
  
  
$
1,008
  
 
 
0.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  41 


Table of Contents
Property Operating Expenses 
The 0.3% decrease in property operating expenses in the Core Portfolio reflects (i) a 0.4% increase in property
operating and maintenance expenses and (ii) and a 11.0% decrease in sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses are all related to the costs incurred for the entry or upgrade of right-to-use contracts. The decrease in sales and
marketing expenses is due to reduced commissions as a result of reduced high-cost right-to-use contracts activity.  The increase in Total Portfolio income from property operations is primarily due to the acquisition of 75 Acquisition Properties during the year ended December 31, 2011. (See Note 19 in the notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for details regarding these closings.)  Home Sales Operations
 The following table summarizes certain financial and statistical data for the Home Sales Operations
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (amounts in thousands, except sales volumes).   




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Variance
 
 
% Change
 

 Gross revenues from new home sales
  
$
2,278
  
 
$
2,695
  
 
$
(417
) 
 
 
(15.5
%) 

 Cost of new home sales
  
 
(2,133
) 
 
 
(2,550
) 
 
 
417
  
 
 
(16.4
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit from new home sales
  
 
145
  
 
 
145
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0.0
% 

 Gross revenues from used home sales
  
 
3,810
  
 
 
3,425
  
 
 
385
  
 
 
11.2
% 

 Cost of used home sales
  
 
(3,550
) 
 
 
(2,846
) 
 
 
(704
) 
 
 
(24.7
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit from used home sales
  
 
260
  
 
 
579
  
 
 
(319
) 
 
 
(55.1
%) 

 Brokered resale revenues, net
  
 
806
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
(112
) 
 
 
(12.2
%) 

 Home selling expenses
  
 
(1,589
) 
 
 
(2,078
) 
 
 
489
  
 
 
23.5
% 

 Ancillary services revenues, net
  
 
1,502
  
 
 
2,504
  
 
 
(1,002
) 
 
 
(40.0
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from home sales operations and other
  
$
1,124
  
 
$
2,068
  
 
$
(944
) 
 
 
(45.6
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Home sales volumes:
  



 



 



 




 New home sales (1)
  
 
51
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(37.8
%) 

 Used home sales (2)
  
 
893
  
 
 
795
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
12.3
% 

 Brokered home resale
  
 
711
  
 
 
673
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
5.6
% 
  


(1) 
 Includes third party home sales of three and 19 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 


(2) 
 Includes third party home sales of one and 10 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Income from home sales operations decreased primarily as a result of decreased profit on used home sales and a decrease
in ancillary revenues. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Rental Operations 
The following table summarizes certain financial and statistical data for manufactured home Rental Operations for the
years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands). The amounts below are included in Ancillary services revenue, net, in the Home Sales Operations table in the previous section, unless otherwise noted. 
 




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Variance
 
 
% Change
 

 Manufactured homes:
  



 



 



 




 New Home
  
$
12,416
  
 
$
8,283
  
 
$
4,133
  
 
 
49.9
% 

 Used Home
  
 
19,460
  
 
 
12,003
  
 
 
7,457
  
 
 
62.1
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Rental operations revenue (1)
  
 
31,876
  
 
 
20,286
  
 
 
11,590
  
 
 
57.1
% 

 Rental operations expense
  
 
(4,450
) 
 
 
(2,930
) 
 
 
(1,520
) 
 
 
(51.9
%) 

 Depreciation
  
 
(4,280
) 
 
 
(2,827
) 
 
 
(1,453
) 
 
 
(51.4
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from rental operations
  
$
23,146
  
 
$
14,529
  
 
$
8,617
  
 
 
59.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net investment in new manufactured home rental units
  
$
78,122
  
 
$
59,123
  
 
$
18,999
  
 
 
32.1
% 

 Net investment in used manufactured home rental units
  
$
54,653
  
 
$
23,192
  
 
$
31,461
  
 
 
135.7
% 

 Number of occupied rentals—new, end of period
  
 
1,352
  
 
 
801
  
 
 
551
  
 
 
68.8
% 

 Number of occupied rentals—used, end of period
  
 
3,071
  
 
 
1,644
  
 
 
1427
  
 
 
86.8
% 
  


(1) 
 Approximately $23.9 million and $15.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are included in Community base rental income
in the Property Operations table.  The increase in income from rental operations and
depreciation expense is primarily due to the increase in the number of rental units resulting from the acquisition of 75 Acquisition Properties during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company acquires used homes from customers through purchase, lien, sale or
abandonment. In a vibrant new home sale market older homes may be removed from sites and replaced with new homes. In other cases, due to the nature of tenancy rights afforded to purchasers, used homes are rented in order to control the site either
in the condition received or after warranted rehabilitation.  Other Income and Expenses 
The following table summarizes other income and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (amounts in
thousands).   




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Variance
 
 
% Change
 

 Depreciation on real estate and other costs
  
$
(79,981
) 
 
$
(68,125
) 
 
$
(11,856
) 
 
 
(17.4
%) 

 Amortization of in-place leases
  
 
(28,479
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(28,479
) 
 
 
(100.0
%) 

 Interest income
  
 
7,000
  
 
 
4,419
  
 
 
2,581
  
 
 
58.4
% 

 Income from other investments, net
  
 
6,452
  
 
 
5,740
  
 
 
712
  
 
 
12.4
% 

 General and administrative
  
 
(23,833
) 
 
 
(22,559
) 
 
 
(1,274
) 
 
 
(5.6
%) 

 Transaction costs
  
 
(18,493
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,493
) 
 
 
(100.0
%) 

 Rent control initiatives
  
 
(1,009
) 
 
 
(1,120
) 
 
 
111
  
 
 
9.9
% 

 Impairment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,635
) 
 
 
3,635
  
 
 
100.0
% 

 Depreciation on corporate assets
  
 
(1,034
) 
 
 
(1,080
) 
 
 
46
  
 
 
4.3
% 

 Interest and related amortization
  
 
(99,668
) 
 
 
(91,151
) 
 
 
(8,517
) 
 
 
(9.3
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expenses, net
  
$
(239,045
) 
 
$
(177,511
) 
 
$
(61,534
) 
 
 
(34.7
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  43 


Table of Contents
Depreciation on real estate and other costs, amortization of in-place
leases, interest income and interest expense increased primarily due to the purchase of 75 Acquisition Properties during the year ended December 31, 2011. Transaction costs consist primarily of the following costs incurred related to the
Acquisition: seller’s debt defeasance costs, transfer tax, professional fees, and costs related to due diligence items such as title, survey, zoning and environmental. Impairment decreased due to a non-cash write-off of $3.6 million in the year
ended December 31, 2010 of goodwill associated with a 2009 acquisition of a Florida internet and media based advertising business. 
Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2010 to Year Ended December 31, 2009 
The following table summarizes certain financial and statistical data for the Property Operations for all Properties owned
and operated for the same period in both years (“Core Portfolio”) and the Total Portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in thousands). The Core Portfolio may change from time-to-time depending on
acquisitions, dispositions and significant transactions or unique situations. The Core Portfolio in this comparison of the year ended December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2009 includes all Properties acquired on or prior to December 31,
2008 and which were owned and operated by the Company during the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Growth percentages exclude the impact of GAAP deferrals of up-front payments from right-to-use contracts entered and
related commissions.   




































 
  
Core Portfolio
 
 
Total Portfolio
 

 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Increase /(Decrease)
 
 
%Change
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Increase /(Decrease)
 
 
%Change
 

 Community base rental income
  
$
259,292
  
  
$
253,265
  
  
$
6,027
  
 
 
2.4
% 
 
$
259,351
  
  
$
253,379
  
  
$
5,972
  
 
 
2.4
% 

 Resort base rental income
  
 
125,932
  
  
 
121,933
  
  
 
3,999
  
 
 
3.3
% 
 
 
129,481
  
  
 
124,822
  
  
 
4,659
  
 
 
3.7
% 

 Right-to-use annual payment
  
 
49,788
  
  
 
50,766
  
  
 
(978
) 
 
 
(1.9
%) 
 
 
49,831
  
  
 
50,765
  
  
 
(934
) 
 
 
(1.8
%) 

 Right-to-use contracts current period, gross
  
 
19,496
  
  
 
21,526
  
  
 
(2,030
) 
 
 
(9.4
%) 
 
 
19,496
  
  
 
21,526
  
  
 
(2,030
) 
 
 
(9.4
%) 

 Utility and other income
  
 
48,039
  
  
 
47,449
  
  
 
590
  
 
 
1.2
% 
 
 
48,357
  
  
 
47,685
  
  
 
672
  
 
 
1.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property operating revenues, excluding deferrals
  
 
502,547
  
  
 
494,939
  
  
 
7,608
  
 
 
1.5
% 
 
 
506,516
  
  
 
498,177
  
  
 
8,339
  
 
 
1.7
% 

 Property operating and maintenance
  
 
182,910
  
  
 
178,951
  
  
 
3,959
  
 
 
2.2
% 
 
 
185,786
  
  
 
180,870
  
  
 
4,916
  
 
 
2.7
% 

 Real estate taxes
  
 
31,877
  
  
 
31,533
  
  
 
344
  
 
 
1.1
% 
 
 
32,110
  
  
 
31,674
  
  
 
436
  
 
 
1.4
% 

 Sales and marketing, gross
  
 
12,606
  
  
 
13,544
  
  
 
(938
) 
 
 
(6.9
%) 
 
 
12,606
  
  
 
13,536
  
  
 
(930
) 
 
 
(6.9
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property operating expenses, excluding deferrals and Property management
  
 
227,393
  
  
 
224,028
  
  
 
3,365
  
 
 
1.5
% 
 
 
230,502
  
  
 
226,080
  
  
 
4,422
  
 
 
2.0
% 

 Income from property operations, excluding deferrals and Property management
  
 
275,154
  
  
 
270,911
  
  
 
4,243
  
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
276,014
  
  
 
272,097
  
  
 
3,917
  
 
 
1.4
% 

 Property management
  
 
32,362
  
  
 
33,228
  
  
 
(866
) 
 
 
(2.6
%) 
 
 
32,639
  
  
 
33,383
  
  
 
(744
) 
 
 
(2.2
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from property operations, excluding deferrals
  
$
242,792
  
  
$
237,683
  
  
$
5,109
  
 
 
2.1
% 
 
$
243,375
  
  
$
238,714
  
  
$
4,661
  
 
 
2.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Property Operating Revenues 
The 1.5% increase in the Core Portfolio property operating revenues primarily reflects (i) a 2.4% increase in rates
in community base rental income (ii) a 3.3% increase in revenues in core resort base income, as described in the table below and (iii) a decrease of 9.4% in right-to-use contracts. The reduction in entry of right-to-use contracts is due to
the Company’s recent introduction of low-cost membership products in the spring of 2010 and the phase-out of memberships with higher initial upfront payments. 
  44 


Table of Contents
Resort base rental income is comprised of the following (amounts in thousands): 
 




































 
  
Core Portfolio
 
 
Total Portfolio
 

 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
 
 
% Change
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
 
  
% Change
 

 Annual
  
$
77,618
  
  
$
74,381
  
  
$
3,237
  
 
 
4.4
% 
 
$
79,842
  
  
$
76,200
  
  
$
3,642
  
  
 
4.8
% 

 Seasonal
  
 
21,529
  
  
 
20,588
  
  
 
941
  
 
 
4.6
% 
 
 
21,598
  
  
 
20,617
  
  
 
981
  
  
 
4.8
% 

 Transient
  
 
26,785
  
  
 
26,964
  
  
 
(179
) 
 
 
(0.7
%) 
 
 
28,041
  
  
 
28,005
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
0.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Resort base rental income
  
$
125,932
  
  
$
121,933
  
  
$
3,999
  
 
 
3.3
% 
 
$
129,481
  
  
$
124,822
  
  
$
4,659
  
  
 
3.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Property Operating Expenses 
The 1.5% increase in property operating expenses in the Core Portfolio reflects (i) a 2.2% increase in property
operating and maintenance expenses (ii) a 1.1% increase in property taxes and (iii) a 6.9% decrease in sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses are all related to the costs incurred for the entry or upgrade of
right-to-use contracts. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses is due to reduced commissions as a result of reduced high-cost right-to-use contracts activity. Total Portfolio property management expenses primarily decreased due to decreased
payroll expenses for 2010.  Home Sales Operations 
The following table summarizes certain financial and statistical data for the Home Sales Operations for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in thousands, except sales volumes).   




















 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Variance
 
 
% Change
 

 Gross revenues from new home sales
  
$
2,695
  
 
$
3,397
  
 
$
(702
) 
 
 
(20.7
%) 

 Cost of new home sales
  
 
(2,550
) 
 
 
(4,681
) 
 
 
2,131
  
 
 
45.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit (loss) from new home sales
  
 
145
  
 
 
(1,284
) 
 
 
1,429
  
 
 
111.3
% 

 Gross revenues from used home sales
  
 
3,425
  
 
 
3,739
  
 
 
(314
) 
 
 
(8.4
%) 

 Cost of used home sales
  
 
(2,846
) 
 
 
(2,790
) 
 
 
(56
) 
 
 
(2.0
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit from used home sales
  
 
579
  
 
 
949
  
 
 
(370
) 
 
 
(39.0
%) 

 Brokered resale revenues, net
  
 
918
  
 
 
758
  
 
 
160
  
 
 
21.1
% 

 Home selling expenses
  
 
(2,078
) 
 
 
(2,383
) 
 
 
305
  
 
 
12.8
% 

 Ancillary services revenues, net
  
 
2,504
  
 
 
2,745
  
 
 
(241
) 
 
 
(8.8
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from home sales operations and other
  
$
2,068
  
 
$
785
  
 
$
1,283
  
 
 
163.4
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Home sales volumes:
  



 



 



 




 New home sales (1)
  
 
82
  
 
 
113
  
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(27.4
%) 

 Used home sales (2)
  
 
795
  
 
 
747
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
6.4
% 

 Brokered home resale
  
 
673
  
 
 
612
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
10.0
% 
  


(1) 
 Includes third party home sales of 19 and 28 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 


(2) 
 Includes third party home sales of 10 and seven for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Income from home sales operations increased primarily as a result of increased profit on new home sales. The 2009 gross
loss from new home sales includes an inventory reserve of approximately $0.9 million. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Rental Operations 
The following table summarizes certain financial and statistical data for manufactured home Rental Operations for the
years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in thousands). Except as otherwise noted, the amounts below are included in Ancillary services revenue, net, in the Home Sales Operations table in the previous section. 
 




















 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Variance
 
 
% Change
 

 Manufactured homes:
  



 



 



 




 New Home
  
$
8,283
  
 
$
6,570
  
 
$
1,713
  
 
 
26.1
% 

 Used Home
  
 
12,003
  
 
 
9,187
  
 
 
2,816
  
 
 
30.7
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Rental operations revenue (1)
  
 
20,286
  
 
 
15,757
  
 
 
4,529
  
 
 
28.7
% 

 Rental operations expense
  
 
(2,930
) 
 
 
(2,212
) 
 
 
(718
) 
 
 
(32.5
%) 

 Depreciation
  
 
(2,827
) 
 
 
(2,361
) 
 
 
(466
) 
 
 
(19.7
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from rental operations, net of depreciation
  
$
14,529
  
 
$
11,184
  
 
$
3,345
  
 
 
29.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net investment in new manufactured home rental units
  
$
59,123
  
 
$
47,845
  
 
$
11,278
  
 
 
23.6
% 

 Net investment in used manufactured home rental units
  
$
23,192
  
 
$
16,669
  
 
$
6,523
  
 
 
39.1
% 

 Number of occupied rentals—new, end of period
  
 
801
  
 
 
626
  
 
 
175
  
 
 
28.0
% 

 Number of occupied rentals—used, end of period
  
 
1,644
  
 
 
1,117
  
 
 
527
  
 
 
47.2
% 
  


(1) 
 Approximately $15.4 million and $11.9 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, are included in Community base rental
income in the Property Operations table.  The increase in income from rental operations and
depreciation expense is primarily due to the increase in the number of rental units.  Other Income and Expenses 
The following table summarizes other income and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in
thousands).   




















 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Variance
 
 
% Change
 

 Depreciation on real estate and other costs
  
$
(68,125
) 
 
$
(69,049
) 
 
$
924
  
 
 
1.3
% 

 Interest income
  
 
4,419
  
 
 
5,119
  
 
 
(700
) 
 
 
(13.7
%) 

 Income from other investments, net
  
 
5,740
  
 
 
8,168
  
 
 
(2,428
) 
 
 
(29.7
%) 

 General and administrative
  
 
(22,559
) 
 
 
(22,279
) 
 
 
(280
) 
 
 
(1.3
%) 

 Rent control initiatives
  
 
(1,120
) 
 
 
(456
) 
 
 
(664
) 
 
 
(145.6
%) 

 Impairment
  
 
(3,635
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,635
) 
 
 
(100.0
%) 

 Depreciation on corporate assets
  
 
(1,080
) 
 
 
(1,039
) 
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
(3.9
%) 

 Interest and related amortization
  
 
(91,151
) 
 
 
(98,311
) 
 
 
7,160
  
 
 
7.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expenses, net
  
$
(177,511
) 
 
$
(177,847
) 
 
$
336
  
 
 
0.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Interest income is lower primarily due to lower notes receivable amounts outstanding.
Income from other investments, net, decreased primarily due to reduced insurance proceeds of $1.3 million and the 2009 gain on sale of Caledonia of $0.8 million. Rent control initiatives are higher due to increased activity in the San Rafael legal
appeal (see Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K). Impairment is a non-cash write-off of $3.6 million in goodwill associated with a 2009 acquisition of a Florida internet and media based advertising
business. Interest expense is lower primarily due to lower mortgage notes payable amounts outstanding. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Equity in Income of Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 
For the year ended December 31, 2010, equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures decreased $0.9 million
primarily due to a $1.1 million gain in 2009 on the sale of the Company’s 25% interest in two Diversified Portfolio joint ventures, offset by $0.4 million of distributions that exceeded the Company’s basis in its joint venture and were
recorded in income in 2010.  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Liquidity  As of December 31, 2011 the Company
had $70.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $380.0 million available on its line of credit. The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including its distributions, generally through its working capital, net cash
provided by operating activities and availability under its existing line of credit. The Company expects to meet certain long-term liquidity requirements such as scheduled debt maturities, property acquisitions and capital improvements by use of its
current cash balance, long-term collateralized and uncollateralized borrowings including borrowings under its existing line of credit and the issuance of debt securities or additional equity securities in the Company, in addition to net cash
provided by operating activities. The Company has approximately $34.6 million of scheduled debt maturities in 2012 (excluding scheduled principal payments on debt maturing in 2012 and beyond). The Company expects to satisfy its 2012 maturities with
its existing cash balance.  The table below summarizes cash flow activity for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 (amounts in thousands).   
















 
  
For the years endedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
$
174,086
  
 
$
163,309
  
 
$
150,525
  

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(700,293
) 
 
 
(98,933
) 
 
 
(34,892
) 

 Net cash provided by (used) in financing activities
  
 
584,008
  
 
 
(196,845
) 
 
 
(15,817
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
57,801
  
 
$
(132,469
) 
 
$
99,816
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Operating Activities  Net cash provided by operating activities increased $10.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $163.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in 2011 was
primarily due an increase in net income net of depreciation expense and amortization of in-place leases. Net cash provided by operating activities increased $12.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $150.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2009. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to a $9.2 million increase in consolidated income from continuing operations and an increase in rents received in advance.  Investing Activities  Net cash used in investing activities
reflects the impact of the following investing activities:  Acquisitions 
2011 Acquisitions  During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company closed on 75 of the Acquisition Properties and certain Home Related Assets associated with such 75 Acquisition Properties for a purchase price of

  47 


Table of Contents

approximately $1.5 billion. The Company funded the purchase price of this closing with (i) the issuance of 1,708,276 shares of its common stock, to the seller with an aggregate value of
approximately $111 million, (ii) the issuance of 1,740,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock to the seller with an aggregate value of approximately $113 million, (iii) the assumption of mortgage debt secured by 35
Acquisition Properties with an aggregate value of approximately $548 million, (iv) the net proceeds of approximately $344 million, net of offering costs, from a common stock offering of 6,037,500 shares, (v) approximately $200
million of cash from the Term Loan the Company closed on July 1, 2011, and (vi) approximately $200 million of cash from new secured financings originated during the third quarter of 2011. The assumed mortgage debt has stated interest rates
ranging from 4.65% to 8.87% per annum and matures from dates ranging from 2012 to 2023. (See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for a description of the Company’s recent acquisitions.)
 2009 Acquisitions  On February 13, 2009, the Company acquired the remaining 75% interests in three Diversified Portfolio joint ventures known as (i) Robin Hill, a 270-site property in Lenhartsville, Pennsylvania,
(ii) Sun Valley, a 265-site property in Brownsville, Pennsylvania, and (iii) Plymouth Rock, a 609-site property in Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin. The gross purchase price was approximately $19.2 million, and the Company assumed mortgage loans of
approximately $12.9 million with a value of approximately $11.9 million and a weighted average interest rate of 6% per annum.  On August 31, 2009, the Company acquired an internet and media based advertising business located in Orlando, Florida for approximately $3.7 million. 
Dispositions  On February 13, 2009, the Company sold its 25% interest in two Diversified Portfolio joint ventures known as (i) Pine Haven, a 625-site property in Ocean View, New Jersey and (ii) Round
Top, a 319-site property in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. A gain on sale of approximately $1.1 million was recognized during the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and is included in Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures. 
On April 17, 2009, the Company sold Caledonia, a 247-site Property in Caledonia, Wisconsin, for proceeds of
approximately $2.2 million. The Company recognized a gain on sale of approximately $0.8 million which is included in Income from other investments, net. In addition, the Company received approximately $0.3 million of deferred rent due from the
previous tenant.  On July 20, 2009, the Company sold Casa Village, a 490-site Property in Billings,
Montana for a stated purchase price of approximately $12.4 million. The buyer assumed $10.6 million of mortgage debt that had a stated interest rate of 6.02% and was schedule to mature in 2013. The Company recognized a gain on the sale of
approximately $5.1 million. Cash proceeds from the sale, net of closing costs were approximately $1.1 million. 
The operating results of all properties sold or held for disposition have been reflected in the discontinued operations
of the Consolidated Statements of Operations contained in this Form 10-K, except for Caledonia.  Notes Receivable Activity
 The notes receivable activity during the year ended December 31, 2011 of $0.9 million in cash
outflow reflects net repayments of $2.3 million from the Company’s Chattel Loans, net repayments of $0.7 million from its Contract Receivables and lending of $3.8 million to Lakeland RV. (See Note 7 in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.)  The notes receivable activity during the year ended
December 31, 2010 of $1.2 million in cash inflow reflects net repayments of $0.4 million from the Company’s Chattel Loans, net repayments of $0.7 million from its Contract Receivables and a net inflow of $0.1 million on other notes
receivable. 
  48 


Table of Contents
The notes receivable activity during the year ended December 31, 2009
of $0.9 million in cash inflow reflects net repayments of $0.5 million from the Company’s Chattel Loans, net repayments of $2.3 million from its Contract Receivables and a net outflow of $1.9 million on other notes receivable. 
Capital improvements  The table below summarizes capital improvements activity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 (amounts in thousands). 
 
















 
  
For the years ended December 31,
(1)
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Recurring Cap Ex (2)
  
$
23,315
  
  
$
20,794
  
  
$
17,415
  

 Development (3)
  
 
2,467
  
  
 
7,008
  
  
 
5,476
  

 New home investments
  
 
28,542
  
  
 
12,523
  
  
 
2,607
  

 Used home investments
  
 
7,266
  
  
 
7,254
  
  
 
3,032
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Property
  
 
61,590
  
  
 
47,579
  
  
 
28,530
  

 Corporate (4)
  
 
442
  
  
 
1,050
  
  
 
1,584
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Capital improvements
  
$
62,032
  
  
$
48,629
  
  
$
30,114
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Excludes noncash activity of approximately $0.8 million, $3.7 million, and $1.4 million for new homes purchased with dealer financing and
approximately $2.7 million, $0.6 million and $0.8 million of repossessions for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 


(2) 
 Recurring capital expenditures (“Recurring CapEx”) are primarily comprised of common area improvements, furniture, and mechanical
improvements. 


(3) 
 Development primarily represents costs to improve and upgrade Property infrastructure or amenities. 


(4) 
 For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, this includes approximately $0.7 and $1.2 million, respectively, spent to renovate the
corporate headquarters, of which approximately $0.7 and $0.9 million, respectively, was reimbursed by the landlord as a tenant allowance.  Financing Activities  Net cash used in financing activities
reflects the impact of the following:  Mortgages and Credit Facilities  Financing, Refinancing and Early Debt Retirement  2011 Activity 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid off nine maturing mortgages totalling approximately $52.5
million, with a weighted average interest rate of 7.04% per annum.  During the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Company closed on approximately $200.0 million of new financing on 20 manufactured home communities and three resort properties with a weighted average interest rate of 5.02% per annum, maturing in 2021. The Company
also assumed approximately $548 million of mortgage debt, which includes a fair market value adjustment of approximately $34 million, secured by 35 Acquisition Properties with a stated interest rates ranging from 4.65% to 8.87% per annum,
maturing in various years from 2013 to 2023.  On July 1, 2011, the Company closed on a $200.0 million
Term Loan that matures on June 30, 2017 and has a one-year extension option, an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.85% to 2.80% per annum and, subject to certain conditions, may be prepaid at any time without premium or penalty after
July 1, 2014. Prior to July 1, 2014, a 
  49 


Table of Contents

prepayment penalty of 2% of the amount prepaid would be owed. The spread over LIBOR is variable based on leverage measured quarterly throughout the loan term. The Term Loan contains an upfront
arrangement fee of approximately $0.5 million, an upfront commitment fee of approximately $1.3 million, an annual administrative agency fee of $20,000, as well as customary representations, warranties and negative and affirmative
covenants, and provides for acceleration of principal and payment of all other amounts payable thereunder upon the occurrence of certain events of default.  2010 Activity  During the year ended December 31,
2010, the Company closed on approximately $61.6 million of new financing on three manufactured home Properties, with a weighted average interest rate of 6.91% that matures in ten years. The Company also closed on approximately $15.0 million of new
financing on one resort Property, with a stated interest rate of 6.50% that matures in ten years. The Company used the proceeds from the financings to pay off approximately $184.2 million on 13 Properties, with a weighted average interest rate of
6.98% and approximately $5.1 million of dealer financing on rental unit purchases.  2009 Activity 
On February 13, 2009, in connection with the acquisition of the remaining 75% interests in the Diversified Portfolio
joint venture, the Company assumed mortgages of approximately $11.9 million with a weighted average interest rate of 5.95% and weighted average maturity of five years. 
On December 17, 2009, the Company paid off the $2 million unsecured note payable to Privileged Access. 
During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company closed on approximately $107.3 million of new financing, on six
manufactured home properties, with a weighted average interest rate of 6.32% that mature in 10 years. The Company used the proceeds from the financing to pay off approximately $106.7 million on 20 Properties, with a weighted average interest rate of
7.36%.  Secured Property Debt  As of December 31, 2011 the Company’s secured long-term debt balance was approximately $2.1 billion, with a weighted average interest rate in 2011 of approximately 5.8% per annum. The debt
bears interest at rates between 4.7% and 8.9% per annum and matures on various dates primarily ranging from 2012 to 2023. The weighted average term to maturity for the long-term debt is approximately 5.3 years. The Company expects to satisfy
its secured debt maturities of approximately $34.6 million occurring prior to December 31, 2012 with its existing cash balance. 
Unsecured Debt  On May 19, 2011, the Company amended its unsecured Line of Credit (“LOC”) to increase its borrowing capacity under the LOC from $100 million to a maximum borrowing capacity of $380 million
and to extend the maturity date to September 18, 2015. The LOC accrues interest at an annual rate equal to the applicable LIBOR rate plus 1.65% to 2.50% and contains a 0.30% to 0.40% facility fee as well as certain other customary negative and
affirmative covenants. The Company has an eight-month extension option under the LOC, subject to payment by it of certain administrative fees and the satisfaction of certain other enumerated conditions. The spread over LIBOR and the facility fee
pricing are variable based on leverage measured quarterly throughout the term of the LOC. The Company incurred commitment and arrangement fees of approximately $3.6 million to enter into the amended LOC.
The weighted average interest rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 for the Company’s unsecured
debt was approximately 3.9% and 0.0% per annum, respectively. No amounts were outstanding on the line of credit at any time during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
  50 


Table of Contents
On July 1, 2011, the Company closed on a $200.0 million Term Loan that
matures on June 30, 2017 and has a one-year extension option, an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.85% to 2.80% per annum and, subject to certain conditions, may be prepaid at any time after July 1, 2014 without premium or penalty, or
before July 1, 2014 with a prepayment penalty of 2% of the amount prepaid. The spread over LIBOR is variable based on leverage throughout the loan. The Term Loan contains an arrangement fee of approximately $0.5 million, an upfront fee of
approximately $1.3 million, an annual administrative agency fee of $20,000, as well as customary representations, warranties and negative and affirmative covenants, and provides for acceleration of principal and payment of all other amounts
payable thereunder upon the occurrence of certain events of default.  Other Loans 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company borrowed approximately $0.8 million secured by individual
manufactured homes. The financing, provided by the dealer, requires quarterly payments, bears interest at 6.0% and matures on July 16, 2016.  During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company borrowed approximately $3.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively, which is secured by individual manufactured homes. This financing
provided by the dealer requires monthly payments, bears interest at 8.5% and matures on the earlier of: 1) the date the home is sold, or 2) November 20, 2016. All amounts outstanding were paid off prior to December 31, 2010.
 Certain of the Company’s mortgages and credit agreements contain covenants and restrictions including
restrictions as to the ratio of secured or unsecured debt versus encumbered or unencumbered assets, the ratio of fixed charges-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), limitations on certain holdings
and other restrictions.  Contractual Obligations 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company was subject to certain contractual payment obligations as described in the table
below (dollars in thousands):   




































 
 
Total
 
 
2012
 
 
2013
 
 
2014
 
 
2015
 
 
2016
 
 
2017
 
 
Thereafter
 

 Long Term Borrowings (1)
 
$
2,253,311
  
 
$
64,156
  
 
$
149,628
  
 
$
212,574
  
 
$
588,535
  
 
$
235,053
  
 
$
299,060
  
 
$
704,305
  

 Interest Expense (2)
 
 
621,926
  
 
 
123,661
  
 
 
117,044
  
 
 
105,401
  
 
 
93,576
  
 
 
58,874
  
 
 
47,972
  
 
 
75,398
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Contractual Obligations
 
$
2,875,237
  
 
$
187,817
  
 
$
266,672
  
 
$
317,975
  
 
$
682,111
  
 
$
293,927
  
 
$
347,032
  
 
$
779,703
  

 Weighted average interest rates
 
 
5.51
% 
 
 
5.49
% 
 
 
5.46
% 
 
 
5.45
% 
 
 
5.37
% 
 
 
5.28
% 
 
 
5.86
% 
 
 
6.39
% 
  


(1) 
 Balance excludes net premiums and discounts of $31.4 million, primarily due to the fair market value adjustment of the assumption of $515.0 million
of secured debt from the Acquisition Properties. Balances include debt maturing and scheduled periodic principal payments 


(2) 
 Amounts include interest expected to be incurred on the Company’s secured debt based on obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2011.
 The Company does not include insurance, property taxes and cancelable contracts in the
contractual obligations table above.  The Company leases land under non-cancelable operating leases at certain
of the Properties expiring in various years from 2013 to 2054, with terms which require twelve equal payments per year plus additional rents calculated as a percentage of gross revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, ground lease rent
was approximately $2.5 million and for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, ground lease rent was approximately $1.9 million. Minimum future rental payments under the ground leases are approximately

  51 


Table of Contents

$3.3 million for 2012 and 2013, approximately $1.9 million in each of 2014, 2015 and 2016, and approximately $14.9 million thereafter. The decrease in future minimum rental payments assumes
that the Company will exercise its option to acquire land at the recently acquired Colony Cove Property on January 1, 2014. The option exercise date is subject to certain assumptions and the timing of the option exercise may be before or after
January 1, 2014.  With respect to maturing debt, the Company has staggered the maturities of its
long-term mortgage debt over an average of approximately five years, with approximately $589 million (which is due in 2015) in principal maturities coming due in any single year. The Company believes that it will be able to refinance its maturing
debt obligations on a secured or unsecured basis; however, to the extent the Company is unable to refinance its debt as it matures, it believes that it will be able to repay such maturing debt from operating cash flow, asset sales and/or the
proceeds from equity issuances. With respect to any refinancing of maturing debt, the Company’s future cash flow requirements could be impacted by significant changes in interest rates or other debt terms, including required amortization
payments.  Equity Transactions  In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company must distribute 90% or more of its taxable income (excluding capital gains) to its stockholders. The following regular quarterly
distributions have been declared and paid to common stockholders and non-controlling interests since January 1, 2009.   










 Distribution Amount Per Share
  
 For the Quarter Ending
  
 Stockholder Record Date
  
 Payment Date

$0.2500
  
March 31, 2009
  
March 27, 2009
  
April 10, 2009

$0.2500
  
June 30, 2009
  
June 26, 2009
  
July 10, 2009

$0.3000
  
September 30, 2009
  
September 25, 2009
  
October 9, 2009

$0.3000
  
December 31, 2009
  
December 24, 2009
  
January 8, 2010

$0.3000
  
March 31, 2010
  
March 26, 2010
  
April 9, 2010

$0.3000
  
June 30, 2010
  
June 25, 2010
  
July 9, 2010

$0.3000
  
September 30, 2010
  
September 24, 2010
  
October 8, 2010

$0.3000
  
December 31, 2010
  
December 31, 2010
  
January 14, 2011

$0.3750
  
March 31, 2011
  
March 25, 2011
  
April 8, 2011

$0.3750
  
June 30, 2011
  
June 24, 2011
  
July 8, 2011

$0.3750
  
September 30, 2011
  
September 30, 2011
  
October 14, 2011

$0.3750
  
December 31, 2011
  
December 30, 2011
  
January 13, 2012
 2011 Activity  On November 9, 2011, the Company announced that in 2012 the annual distribution per common share will be $1.75 per share up from $1.50 per share in 2011 and $1.20 per share in 2010. This decision
recognizes the Company’s investment opportunities and the importance that the Company places on its dividend to its stockholders.  On October 14, 2011, the Company paid to Series B preferred stockholders of record on September 30, 2011 a $0.375 per share distribution on the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock.
 On each of December 30, 2011, September 30, 2011 and June 30, 2011, the Company paid a
$0.502125 per share distribution on the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock to preferred stockholders. On March 31, 2011, the Company paid to preferred stockholders of record on March 21, 2011 a $0.156217 per share pro-rata
distribution on the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock.  On March 31, 2011, the Company paid
pro-rata distributions of 8.0625% per annum on the $150 million Series D 8% Units and 7.95% per annum on the $50 million of Series F 7.95% Units, which were exchanged on March 4, 2011 for the Series A Preferred Stock. 
  52 


Table of Contents
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued 1,708,276
shares of common stock and 1,740,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. All of the shares were issued to partially fund the Acquisition discussed in detail in Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form
10-K.  On October 24, 2011, the Company, on behalf of a selling stockholder, closed on a public offering
of 3,162,069 shares of common stock. The 3,162,069 shares of common stock sold included 1,453,793 shares of common stock issued by the Company upon redemption of 1,453,793 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The Company did not receive any proceeds
from the offering.  On June 7, 2011, the Company issued 6,037,500 shares of common stock in an equity
offering for approximately $344.0 million in proceeds, net of offering costs. The proceeds were used to partially fund the Acquisition discussed in detail in Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received approximately $5.4 million in proceeds
from the issuance of shares of common stock through stock option exercises and the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”).  2010 Activity  On December 31,
2010, September 30, 2010, June 30, 2010 and March 31, 2010, the Operating Partnership paid distributions of 8.0625% per annum on the $150 million Series D 8% Units and 7.95% per annum on the $50 million
of Series F 7.95% Units.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company received approximately
$2.2 million in proceeds from the issuance of shares of common stock, through stock option exercises and the Company’s ESPP.  2009
Activity  On June 29, 2009, the Company issued 4.6 million shares of common stock in an equity
offering for approximately $146.4 million in proceeds, net of offering costs.  On December 31,
2009, September 30, 2009, June 30, 2009 and March 31, 2009, the Operating Partnership paid distributions of 8.0625% per annum on the $150 million Series D 8% Units and 7.95% per annum on the $50 million
of Series F 7.95% Units.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company received approximately
$5.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of shares of common stock, through stock option exercises and the Company’s ESPP. 
Inflation  Substantially all of the leases at the Properties allow for monthly or annual rent increases which provide the Company with the opportunity to achieve increases, where justified by the market, as each
lease matures. Such types of leases generally minimize the risks of inflation to the Company. In addition, the Company’s resort Properties are not generally subject to leases and rents are established for these sites on an annual basis. The
Company’s right-to-use contracts generally provide for an annual dues increase, but dues may be frozen under the terms of certain contracts if the customer is over 61 years old.  Funds From Operations  Funds from Operations
(“FFO”) is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company believes FFO, as defined by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”), is

  53 


Table of Contents

generally an appropriate measure of performance for an equity REIT. While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance for equity REITs, it does not represent cash flow from
operations or net income as defined by GAAP, and it should not be considered as an alternative to these indicators in evaluating liquidity or operating performance. 
The Company defines FFO as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains or actual or estimated losses
from sales of properties, plus real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO
on the same basis. The Company receives up-front non-refundable payments from the entry of right-to-use contracts. In accordance with GAAP, the upfront non-refundable payments and related commissions are deferred and amortized over the estimated
customer life. Although the NAREIT definition of FFO does not address the treatment of nonrefundable right-to-use payments, the Company believes that it is appropriate to adjust for the impact of the deferral activity in its calculation of FFO. The
Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as one of several measures of the performance of an equity REIT. The Company further believes that by excluding the effect of depreciation, amortization and gains or actual or estimated losses from
sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical costs and which may be of limited relevance in evaluating current performance, FFO can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and among other equity REITs. The
Company believes that the adjustment to FFO for the net revenue deferral of upfront non-refundable payments and expense deferral of right-to-use contract commissions also facilitates the comparison to other equity REITs. Investors should review FFO,
along with GAAP net income and cash flow from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities, when evaluating an equity REIT’s operating performance. The Company computes FFO in accordance with its interpretation of
standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the Company
does. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, nor does it represent cash available to pay distributions and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, determined in accordance with
GAAP, as an indication of the Company’s financial performance, or to cash flow from operating activities, determined in accordance with GAAP, as a measure of its liquidity, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs,
including its ability to make cash distributions.  The following table presents a calculation of FFO for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Computation of funds from operations:
  



 



 




 Net income available for common shares
  
$
22,775
  
 
$
38,354
  
 
$
34,005
  

 Income allocated to common OP Units
  
 
3,105
  
 
 
5,903
  
 
 
6,113
  

 Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
466
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Right-to-use contract upfront payments, deferred, net
  
 
11,936
  
 
 
14,856
  
 
 
18,882
  

 Right-to-use contract commissions, deferred, net
  
 
(4,789
) 
 
 
(5,525
) 
 
 
(5,729
) 

 Depreciation on real estate assets and other
  
 
79,981
  
 
 
68,125
  
 
 
69,049
  

 Amortization of in-place leases
  
 
28,479
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Depreciation on unconsolidated joint ventures
  
 
1,229
  
 
 
1,218
  
 
 
1,250
  

 Loss (gain) on real estate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
(5,488
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funds from operations available for common shares
  
$
143,182
  
 
$
123,162
  
 
$
118,082
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding—fully diluted
  
 
40,330
  
 
 
35,518
  
 
 
32,944
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  54 


Table of Contents


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. The Company’s earnings, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent on
prevailing market interest rates. The primary market risk the Company faces is long-term indebtedness, which bears interest at fixed and variable rates. The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt obligations is affected by changes in market
interest rates. At December 31, 2011, approximately 100% or approximately $2.1 billion of the Company’s outstanding secured debt had fixed interest rates, which minimizes the market risk until the debt matures. For each increase in
interest rates of 1% (or 100 basis points), the fair value of the total outstanding debt would decrease by approximately $107.4 million. For each decrease in interest rates of 1% (or 100 basis points), the fair value of the total outstanding
debt would increase by approximately $113.3 million.  At December 31, 2011 none of the Company’s
outstanding secured debt was short-term. The Company’s $200.0 million Term Loan, closed on July 1, 2011, has variable rates based on LIBOR plus 1.85% to 2.80% per annum. 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report includes certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used, words such as “anticipate,” “expect,” “believe,” “project,” “intend,” “may be” and “will be” and similar words or phrases, or the
negative thereof, unless the context requires otherwise, are intended to identify forward-looking statements and may include, without limitation, information regarding the Company’s expectations, goals or intentions regarding the future, and
the expected effect of the Acquisition on the Company. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: 
 


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to control costs, real estate market conditions, the actual rate of decline in customers, the actual use of sites by
customers and its success in acquiring new customers at its Properties (including those that it may acquire);   


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to maintain historical rental rates and occupancy with respect to Properties currently owned or that the Company may
acquire;   


 
•
 
 the Company’s assumptions about rental and home sales markets; 
 


 
•
 
 the Company’s assumptions and guidance concerning 2012 estimated net income and funds from operations; 
 


 
•
 
 in the age-qualified Properties, home sales results could be impacted by the ability of potential homebuyers to sell their existing residences as
well as by financial, credit and capital markets volatility;   


 
•
 
 results from home sales and occupancy will continue to be impacted by local economic conditions, lack of affordable manufactured home financing and
competition from alternative housing options including site-built single-family housing;   


 
•
 
 impact of government intervention to stabilize site-built single family housing and not manufactured housing; 
 


 
•
 
 effective integration of the Acquisition Properties and the Company’s estimates regarding the future performance of the Acquisition Properties;
  


 
•
 
 unanticipated costs or unforeseen liabilities associated with the Acquisition; 
 


 
•
 
 ability to obtain financing or refinance existing debt on favorable terms or at all; 
 


 
•
 
 the effect of interest rates;   


 
•
 
 the dilutive effects of issuing additional securities; 
  55 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 the effect of accounting for the entry of contracts with customers representing a right-to-use the Properties under the Codification Topic
“Revenue Recognition;” and   


 
•
 
 other risks indicated from time to time in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
These forward-looking statements are based on management’s present expectations and beliefs about future events. As
with any projection or forecast, these statements are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The Company is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking
statements whether as a result of such changes, new information, subsequent events or otherwise. 
  56 


Table of Contents


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 of this Form 10-K. 
  57 


Table of Contents


Item 9.
Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures  Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures  The Company’s management, with the participation of the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial and accounting officer), maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures, designed to provide reasonable assurance that
information the Company is required to disclose in the reports that the Company files under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission rules and forms. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that it will detect or uncover failures within the Company to
disclose material information otherwise required to be set forth in the Company’s periodic reports.  The
Company’s management with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011. Based on that
evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this annual report, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to give reasonable
assurances to the timely collection, evaluation and disclosure of information relating to the Company that would potentially be subject to disclosure under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder as of December 31, 2011.  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
As previously announced and discussed in this Form 10-K, the Company acquired 75 Acquisition Properties during the year
ended December 31, 2011. The Company is in the process of integrating the operations of these Acquisition Properties with those of the Company and incorporating the internal controls and procedures of these Acquisition Properties into its
internal control over financial reporting. The Company does not expect this acquisition to materially affect its internal control over financial reporting. The Company will report on its assessment of the combined operations within the one-year time
period provided by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the applicable SEC rules and regulations concerning business combinations. As a result, management excluded certain internal controls, primarily related to the Acquisition Properties, from its
assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. The Acquisition Properties operations included in the 2011 consolidated financial statements of the Company constituted approximately
$1,453.2 million and $835.8 million of total and net assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2011 and approximately $60.0 million of revenues for the year then ended. 
Excluding the operations of the 75 Acquisition Properties, there were no material changes in the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2011.  Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting  Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. 
  58 


Table of Contents
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Management’s assessment of and conclusion on the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the 75 Acquisition Properties, which are included in the 2011 consolidated financial statements of the Company and constituted $1,453.2 million and
$835.8 million of total and net assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2011 and $60.0 million of revenues for the year then ended. Management maintains, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework”. 
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been
audited by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report on Page F-2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.   


Item 9B.
Other Information  Pursuant to the authority granted in the Stock Option and Award Plan, in November 2011 the Compensation Committee approved the annual award of stock options to be granted to the Chairman of the Board, the
Compensation Committee Chairperson and Lead Director, the Executive Committee Chairperson, and the Audit Committee Chairperson and Audit Committee Financial Expert on January 31, 2012 for their services rendered in 2011. On January 31,
2012, Mr. Samuel Zell was awarded options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock, which he elected to receive as 20,000 shares of restricted common stock, for services rendered as Chairman of the Board; Mrs. Sheli Rosenberg was awarded
options to purchase 25,000 shares of common stock, which she elected to receive as 5,000 shares of restricted common stock, for services rendered as Lead Director and Chairperson of the Compensation Committee; Mr. Howard Walker was awarded
options to purchase 15,000 shares of common stock, which he elected to receive as 3,000 shares of restricted common stock, for services rendered as Chairperson of the Executive Committee; and Mr. Philip Calian was awarded options to purchase
15,000 shares of common stock, which he elected to receive as 3,000 shares of restricted common stock, for services rendered as Audit Committee Financial Expert and Audit Committee Chairperson. One-third of the options to purchase common stock and
the shares of restricted common stock covered by these awards vests on each of December 31, 2012, December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014. 
  59 


Table of Contents
PART III  Items 10 and 11 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, and Executive Compensation 
The information required by Item 10 and 11 will be contained in the Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2012
Annual Meeting and is therefore incorporated by reference, and thus Item 10 and 11 has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction G.(3) to Form 10-K.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans required by Item 12
follows:   
















 Plan Category
  
Number of securities tobe Issued upon Exerciseof Outstanding 
Options,Warrants and Rights(a)
 
  
Weighted-average ExercisePrice of OutstandingOptions, Warrants
andRights(b)
 
  
Number of SecuritiesRemaining Available forFuture Issuance
underEquity Compensation Plans(excluding securitiesreflected in column (a))(c)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders (1)
  
 
632,800
  
  
 
44.14
  
  
 
743,345
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders (2)
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
289,716
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
632,800
  
  
 
44.14
  
  
 
1,033,061
  
  


(1) 
 Includes shares of common stock under the Company’s Stock Option and Award Plan adopted in December 1992, and amended and restated from time to
time, most recently amended effective March 23, 2001. The Stock Option and Award Plan and certain amendments thereto were approved by the Company’s stockholders. 


(2) 
 Represents shares of common stock under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which was adopted by the Board of Directors in July 1997,
as amended in May 2006. Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees make monthly contributions which are used to purchase shares of common stock at a purchase price equal to 85% of the lesser of the closing price of a share of common
stock on the first or last trading day of the purchase period. Purchases of common stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan are made on the first business day of the next month after the close of the purchase period. Under New York Stock
Exchange rules then in effect, stockholder approval was not required for the Employee Stock Purchase Plan because it is a broad-based plan available generally to all employees. 
The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management” required by Item 12 will be contained in the Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2012 Annual Meeting and is therefore incorporated by reference, and thus has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction G.(3) to Form
10-K.  Items 13 and 14 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
and Director Independence, and Principal Accountant Fees and Services  The information required by
Item 13 and Item 14 will be contained in the Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2012 Annual Meeting and is therefore incorporated by reference, and thus Item 13 and 14 has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction G.(3)
to Form 10-K. 
  60 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statements Schedules   


1.
 Financial Statements  See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.   


2.
 Financial Statement Schedules  See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.   


3.
 Exhibits:  In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide
any other factual or disclosure information about the Company or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have
been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and:   


 
•
 
 should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those
statements prove to be inaccurate;   


 
•
 
 have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which
disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement;   


 
•
 
 may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and
  


 
•
 
 were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more
recent developments.  Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of
affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about the Company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and its other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC’s
website at http://www.sec.gov.   






    2(a)
 
Admission Agreement between Equity Financial and Management Co., Manufactured Home Communities, Inc. and MHC Operating Partnership




    2.1(x)
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated May 31, 2011, by and among, MHC Operating Limited Partnership, a subsidiary of Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc., and the entities listed as
“Sellers” on the signature page thereto




    2.2(x)
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated May 31, 2011, by and among MH Financial Services, L.L.C., Hometown America Management, L.L.C., Hometown America Management, L.P., and Hometown
America Management Corp., as sellers, and Realty Systems, Inc. and MHC Operating Limited Partnership, collectively, as purchaser




    3.1(k)
 
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. effective May 15, 2007




    3.2(u)
 
Articles Supplementary designating Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc.’s 8.034% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $25.00 per
share, par value $0.01 per share effective March 4, 2011




    3.3(z)
 
Articles Supplementary designating Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc.’s Series B Subordinated Non-Voting Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share
effective July 1, 2011
  61 


Table of Contents









    3.4(l)
 
Second Amended and Restated Bylaws effective August 8, 2007




    3.5(f)
 
Amended and Restated Articles Supplementary of Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. effective March 16, 2005




    3.6(f)
 
Articles Supplementary of Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. effective June 23, 2005




    4.1(q)
 
Amended and Restated 8.0625% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preference Units Term Sheet and Joinder to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
Partnership




    4.2(q)
 
7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preference Units Term Sheet and Joinder to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership




    4.3(q)
 
Form of Specimen Stock Certificate Evidencing the Common Stock of Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc., par value $0.01 per share




    4.4(u)
 
Form of Stock Certificate evidencing the 8.034% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock liquidation preference $25.00 per share, par value $0.01 per
share




    4.5(y)
 
Registration Rights Agreement, entered into by and between Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. and Hometown America, L.L.C. dated July 1, 2011




    9
 
Not applicable




  10.4(b)
 
Second Amended and Restated MHC Operating Limited Partnership Agreement of Limited Partnership, dated March 15, 1996




  10.5(g)
 
Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership for MHC Operating Limited Partnership, dated February 27, 2004




  10.10(c)
 
Form of Manufactured Home Communities, Inc. 1997 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan




  10.11(d)
 
Amended and Restated Manufactured Home Communities, Inc. 1992 Stock Option and Stock Award Plan effective March 23, 2001




  10.19(e)
 
Agreement of Plan of Merger (Thousand Trails), dated August 2, 2004




  10.20(e)
 
Amendment No. 1 to Agreement of Plan of Merger (Thousand Trails), dated September 30, 2004




  10.21(e)
 
Amendment No. 2 to Agreement of Plan of Merger (Thousand Trails), dated November 9, 2004




  10.27(i)
 
Credit Agreement ($225 million Revolving Facility) dated June 29, 2006




  10.28(i)
 
Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement ($50 million Revolving Facility) dated July 14, 2006




  10.31(h)
 
Amendment No. 3 to Agreement and Plan of Merger (Thousand Trails) dated April 14, 2006




  10.33(j)
 
Amendment of Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan dated May 3, 2006




  10.34(j)
 
Form of Indemnification Agreement




  10.37(m)
 
First Amendment to Credit Agreement ($400 million Revolving Facility) dated September 21, 2007




  10.38(m)
 
First Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement ($20 million Revolving Facility) dated September 21, 2007




  10.43(p)
 
Form of Trust Agreement Establishing Howard Walker Deferred Compensation Trust, dated December 8, 2000




  10.44(r)
 
Underwriting Agreement, dated June 23, 2009 by and among Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc., MHC Operating Limited Partnership, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC
  62 


Table of Contents









  10.45(s)
 
Second Amendment to Credit Agreement (Revolving Facility) and Guarantor Consent and Confirmation, dated June 29, 2010, by and among the Company, MHC Operating Limited Partnership,
MHC Trust, T1000 Trust, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and each of the Lenders set forth therein




  10.46(w)
 
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement ($380 million Unsecured Revolving Facility) dated May 19, 2011




  10.47(t)
 
Exchange Agreement dated March 1, 2011 by and among the Company, the Operating Partnership and the Selling Stockholders




  10.48(v)
 
8.034% Series G Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preference Units Term Sheet and Joinder to the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating
Partnership dated March 4, 2011




  10.49(w)
 
Amended and Restated Guaranty dated May 19, 2011




  10.50(z)
 
Term Loan Agreement, dated July 1, 2011, by and among the Company, the Operating Partnership, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Bank of America, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, National
Association and each of the financial institutions initially a signatory thereto together with their successors and assignees




  10.51(z)
 
Guaranty, dated July 1, 2011, by and among the Company, MHC Trust, MHC T1000 Trust and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association




  10.52(z)
 
Series H Subordinated Non-Voting Cumulative Redeemable Preference Units Term Sheet and Joinder to the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating
Partnership dated July 1, 2011




  11
 
Not applicable




  12(aa)
 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges




  13
 
Not applicable




  14(j)
 
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. Business Ethics and Conduct Policy, dated July 2006




  16
 
Not applicable




  18
 
Not applicable




  21(aa)
 
Subsidiaries of the registrant




  22
 
Not applicable




  23(aa)
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm




  24.1(aa)
 
Power of Attorney for Philip C. Calian dated February 21, 2012




  24.2(aa)
 
Power of Attorney for David J. Contis dated February 20, 2012




  24.3(aa)
 
Power of Attorney for Thomas E. Dobrowski dated February 17, 2012




  24.4(aa)
 
Power of Attorney for Sheli Z. Rosenberg dated February 16, 2012




  24.5(aa)
 
Power of Attorney for Howard Walker dated February 24, 2012




  24.6(aa)
 
Power of Attorney for Gary Waterman dated February 21, 2012




  24.7(aa)
 
Power of Attorney for Samuel Zell dated February 24, 2012




  31.1(aa)
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant To Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002




  31.2(aa)
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant To Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002
  63 


Table of Contents









  32.1(aa)
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350




  32.2(aa)
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350




101(bb)
 
The following materials from Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business
Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow, and (iv) the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, furnished herewith.
 The following documents are incorporated herein by reference. 
 


(a) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Form S-11 Registration Statement, File No. 33-55994 


(b) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996 


(c) 
 Included as Exhibit A to the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement dated March 28, 1997, relating to Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on
May 13, 1997 


(d) 
 Included as Appendix A to the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 30, 2001 


(e) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated November 16, 2004 


(f) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 10-Q dated June 30, 2005 


(g) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 10-K dated December 31, 2005 


(h) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated April 14, 2006 


(i) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 10-Q dated June 30, 2006 


(j) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 10-K dated December 31, 2006 


(k) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated May 18, 2007 


(l) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated August 8, 2007 


(m) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated September 21, 2007 


(n) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 2008 


(o) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 10-Q dated March 31, 2008 


(p) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated December 8, 2000, filed on September 25, 2008



(q) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form S-3 ASR dated May 6, 2009 


(r) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated June 23, 2009 


(s) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated July 2, 2010 


(t)
 Included as an
exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated March 1, 2011 


(u) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on March 4, 2011 


(v)
 Included as an
exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated March 4, 2011 


(w)
 Included as an
exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated May 19, 2011 


(x) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated May 31, 2011 


(y) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 10-Q dated June 30, 2011 


(z) 
 Included as an exhibit to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K dated July 1, 2011 


(aa) 
 Filed herewith 


(bb) 
 Users of this data are advised that pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101 hereto are
deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections. 
  64 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   













 

 
 EQUITY LIFESTYLE PROPERTIES, INC., a Maryland corporation






Date: February 28, 2012
 

 
By
 
/s/    THOMAS P.
HENEGHAN        


 

 

 

 
Thomas P. Heneghan


 

 

 

 
 President and Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)






Date: February 28, 2012
 

 
By
 
/s/    MARGUERITE
NADER        


 

 

 

 
Marguerite Nader


 

 

 

 
 Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer


 

 

 

 
 (Principal Financial Officer
and Principal Accounting Officer)

  65 


Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.—Signatures 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Name
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/    THOMAS P.
HENEGHAN         Thomas P. Heneghan
  
 President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer), and Director *Attorney-in-Fact
 
February 28, 2012





 /s/    MARGUERITE
NADER         Marguerite Nader
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)
*Attorney-in-Fact
 
February 28, 2012





 * SAMUEL ZELL
Samuel Zell
  
 Chairman of the Board
 
February 28, 2012





 *HOWARD WALKER
Howard Walker
  
 Vice-Chairman of the Board
 
February 28, 2012





 *PHILIP C. CALIAN
Philip C. Calian
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 *DAVID J. CONTIS
David J. Contis
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 *THOMAS E. DOBROWSKI
Thomas E. Dobrowski
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 * SHELI Z. ROSENBERG
Sheli Z. Rosenberg
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 *GARY WATERMAN
Gary Waterman
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012

  66 


Table of Contents
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
EQUITY LIFESTYLE PROPERTIES, INC.   








 
 
Page
 




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
F-2
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
F-3
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
 
F-4
  




 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 
F-5 and F-6
  




 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 
F-7
  




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 
F-8 and F-9
  




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
F-10
  




 Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 
 
S-1
  




 Schedule III—Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
 
 
S-2
  
 Note that certain schedules have been omitted, as they are not applicable to the Company. 
  F - 1



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. 
We have audited Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc’s (Equity Lifestyle Properties or the Company) internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Equity Lifestyle Properties’
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Item 9A. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our
audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management’s
assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the Acquisition Properties (as defined in Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained
in this Form 10-K) , which are included in the 2011 consolidated financial statements of the Company and constituted $1,453.2 million and $835.8 million of total and net assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2011 and $60.0 million of
revenues for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of the Acquisition Properties. 
In our opinion, Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc., maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2011, and the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15, of Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc., and our report dated February 28, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
 




/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

 ERNST & YOUNG LLP  
Chicago, Illinois
 February 28, 2012 
  F - 2



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. (Equity Lifestyle Properties or the
Company), as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and the schedules are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and the
schedules based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equity Lifestyle Properties at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.  We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Equity Lifestyle Properties’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
 




/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

 ERNST & YOUNG LLP  
Chicago, Illinois
 February 28, 2012 
  F - 3



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Consolidated Balance Sheets  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010  (amounts in thousands, except for
share data)   












 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Assets
 



 




 Investment in real estate:
 



 




 Land
 
$
1,018,521
  
 
$
544,462
  

 Land improvements
 
 
2,591,225
  
 
 
1,762,122
  

 Buildings and other depreciable property
 
 
469,627
  
 
 
278,403
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
 
4,079,373
  
 
 
2,584,987
  

 Accumulated depreciation
 
 
(813,926
) 
 
 
(700,665
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net investment in real estate
 
 
3,265,447
  
 
 
1,884,322
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
70,460
  
 
 
12,659
  

 Short-term investments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
52,266
  

 Notes receivable, net
 
 
64,239
  
 
 
25,726
  

 Investment in joint ventures
 
 
8,557
  
 
 
8,446
  

 Rents and other customer receivables, net
 
 
1,155
  
 
 
419
  

 Deferred financing costs, net
 
 
23,039
  
 
 
10,688
  

 Inventory
 
 
2,948
  
 
 
3,177
  

 Deferred commission expense
 
 
19,687
  
 
 
14,898
  

 Escrow deposits and other assets
 
 
40,569
  
 
 
35,794
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Assets
 
$
3,496,101
  
 
$
2,048,395
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Equity
 



 




 Liabilities:
 



 




 Mortgage notes payable
 
$
2,084,683
  
 
$
1,412,919
  

 Term loan
 
 
200,000
  
 
 
—  
  

 Unsecured lines of credit
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Accrued payroll and other operating expenses
 
 
62,062
  
 
 
52,782
  

 Deferred revenue—upfront payments from right-to-use contracts
 
 
56,285
  
 
 
44,349
  

 Deferred revenue—right-to-use annual payments
 
 
11,877
  
 
 
12,642
  

 Accrued interest payable
 
 
10,737
  
 
 
7,174
  

 Rents and other customer payments received in advance and security deposits
 
 
54,234
  
 
 
47,738
  

 Distributions payable
 
 
16,943
  
 
 
10,633
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities
 
 
2,496,821
  
 
 
1,588,237
  

 Commitments and contingencies
 



 




 Non-controlling interests—Perpetual Preferred OP Units
 
 
—  
  
 
 
200,000
  

 8.034% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock
 



 




 $0.01 par value, 8,000,000 shares authorized, issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and none issued and outstanding
as of December 31, 2010, at liquidation value
 
 
200,000
  
 
 
—  
  

 Equity:
 



 




 Stockholders’ Equity:
 



 




 Preferred stock, $.01 par value 2,000,000 shares authorized; none issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and
2010
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock, $.01 par value 100,000,000 shares authorized for 2011 and 2010; 41,078,200 and 30,972,353 shares issued and
outstanding for 2011 and 2010, respectively
 
 
412
  
 
 
310
  

 Paid-in capital
 
 
998,483
  
 
 
463,722
  

 Distributions in excess of accumulated earnings
 
 
(270,021
) 
 
 
(237,002
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(2,547
) 
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Stockholders’ Equity
 
 
726,327
  
 
 
227,030
  

 Non-controlling interests—Common OP Units
 
 
72,953
  
 
 
33,128
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Equity
 
 
799,280
  
 
 
260,158
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities and Equity
 
$
3,496,101
  
 
$
2,048,395
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements 
  F - 4



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Operations  For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009  (amounts in
thousands, except for share and per share data)   
















 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues:
 



 



 




 Community base rental income
 
$
318,851
  
 
$
259,351
  
 
$
253,379
  

 Resort base rental income
 
 
130,489
  
 
 
129,481
  
 
 
124,822
  

 Right-to-use annual payments
 
 
49,122
  
 
 
49,831
  
 
 
50,765
  

 Right-to-use contracts current period, gross
 
 
17,856
  
 
 
19,496
  
 
 
21,526
  

 Right-to-use contracts, deferred, net of prior period amortization
 
 
(11,936
) 
 
 
(14,856
) 
 
 
(18,882
) 

 Utility and other income
 
 
53,843
  
 
 
48,357
  
 
 
47,685
  

 Gross revenues from home sales
 
 
6,088
  
 
 
6,120
  
 
 
7,136
  

 Brokered resale revenues, net
 
 
806
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
758
  

 Ancillary services revenues, net
 
 
1,502
  
 
 
2,504
  
 
 
2,745
  

 Interest income
 
 
7,000
  
 
 
4,419
  
 
 
5,119
  

 Income from other investments, net
 
 
6,452
  
 
 
5,740
  
 
 
8,168
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
 
 
580,073
  
 
 
511,361
  
 
 
503,221
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 




 Property operating and maintenance
 
 
200,623
  
 
 
185,786
  
 
 
180,870
  

 Real estate taxes
 
 
37,619
  
 
 
32,110
  
 
 
31,674
  

 Sales and marketing, gross
 
 
11,219
  
 
 
12,606
  
 
 
13,536
  

 Sales and marketing, deferred commissions, net
 
 
(4,789
) 
 
 
(5,525
) 
 
 
(5,729
) 

 Property management
 
 
35,076
  
 
 
32,639
  
 
 
33,383
  

 Depreciation on real estate and other costs
 
 
79,981
  
 
 
68,125
  
 
 
69,049
  

 Amortization of in-place leases
 
 
28,479
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cost of home sales
 
 
5,683
  
 
 
5,396
  
 
 
7,471
  

 Home selling expenses
 
 
1,589
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
2,383
  

 General and administrative
 
 
23,833
  
 
 
22,559
  
 
 
22,279
  

 Transaction costs
 
 
18,493
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Rent control initiatives
 
 
1,009
  
 
 
1,120
  
 
 
456
  

 Goodwill impairment
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,635
  
 
 
—  
  

 Depreciation on corporate assets
 
 
1,034
  
 
 
1,080
  
 
 
1,039
  

 Interest and related amortization
 
 
99,668
  
 
 
91,151
  
 
 
98,311
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
539,517
  
 
 
452,760
  
 
 
454,722
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures
 
 
40,556
  
 
 
58,601
  
 
 
48,499
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures
 
 
1,948
  
 
 
2,027
  
 
 
2,896
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated income from continuing operations
 
 
42,504
  
 
 
60,628
  
 
 
51,395
  

 Discontinued Operations:
 



 



 




 Discontinued operations
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
181
  

 (Loss) income from discontinued real estate
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
4,685
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income from discontinued operations
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
4,866
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income
 
 
42,504
  
 
 
60,397
  
 
 
56,261
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  F - 5



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Operations  For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009  (amounts in
thousands, except for share and per share data)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Income allocated to non-controlling interests—Common OP Units
  
 
(3,105
) 
 
 
(5,903
) 
 
 
(6,113
) 

 Income allocated to non-controlling interests—Perpetual Preferred OP Units
  
 
(2,801
) 
 
 
(16,140
) 
 
 
(16,143
) 

 Series A Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
(13,357
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
(466
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income available for Common Shares
  
$
22,775
  
 
$
38,354
  
 
$
34,005
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per Common Share—Basic:
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
 
$
1.26
  
 
$
1.08
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
 
$
1.26
  
 
$
1.23
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per Common Share—Fully Diluted:
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
 
$
1.25
  
 
$
1.07
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
 
$
1.25
  
 
$
1.22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—basic
  
 
35,591
  
 
 
30,517
  
 
 
27,582
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—fully diluted
  
 
40,330
  
 
 
35,518
  
 
 
32,944
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
     The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements 
  F - 6



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Changes In Equity  For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009  (amounts in
thousands)   
































 
 
CommonStock
 
 
Paid-inCapital
 
 
Distributionsin Excess ofAccumulatedComprehensiveEarnings
 
 
Non-controllingInterests—CommonOP Units
 
 
Series BPreferredStock
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 
 
TotalEquity
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
 
$
238
  
 
$
320,084
  
 
$
(241,609
) 
 
$
17,521
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
96,234
  

 Conversion of OP Units to common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,516
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,516
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Issuance of common stock through exercise of options
 
 
2
  
 
 
3,537
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,539
  

 Issuance of common stock through employee stock purchase plan
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,344
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,344
  

 Issuance of common stock through stock offering
 
 
46
  
 
 
146,317
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
146,363
  

 Compensation expenses related to stock options and restricted stock
 
 
15
  
 
 
4,640
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,655
  

 Repurchase of common stock or Common OP Units
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,193
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(188
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,381
) 

 Adjustment for Common OP Unitholders in the Operating Partnership
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(20,549
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
20,549
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
34,005
  
 
 
6,113
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
40,118
  

 Distributions
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(30,863
) 
 
 
(5,582
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(36,445
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
 
301
  
 
 
456,696
  
 
 
(238,467
) 
 
 
35,897
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
254,427
  

 Conversion of OP Units to common stock
 
 
9
  
 
 
3,662
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,671
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Issuance of common stock through exercise of options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,106
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,106
  

 Issuance of common stock through employee stock purchase plan
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,076
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,076
  

 Compensation expenses related to stock options and restricted stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,436
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,436
  

 Repurchase of common stock or Common OP Units
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,054
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,054
) 

 Adjustment for Common OP Unitholders in the Operating Partnership
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(751
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
751
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Acquisition of non-controlling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,449
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(132
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,581
) 

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
38,354
  
 
 
5,903
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
44,257
  

 Distributions
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(36,889
) 
 
 
(5,620
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(42,509
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 
310
  
 
 
463,722
  
 
 
(237,002
) 
 
 
33,128
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
260,158
  

 Conversion of OP Units to common stock
 
 
4
  
 
 
4,063
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,067
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Issuance of common stock through exercise of options
 
 
4
  
 
 
4,567
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,571
  

 Issuance of common stock through employee stock purchase plan
 
 
—  
  
 
 
913
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
913
  

 Compensation expenses related to stock options and restricted stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,762
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,762
  

 Repurchase of common stock or Common OP Units
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,682
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,682
) 

 Adjustment for Common OP Unitholders in the Operating Partnership
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(47,100
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
47,100
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock offering
 
 
60
  
 
 
343,989
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
344,049
  

 Stock issued for Acquisition
 
 
17
  
 
 
110,478
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
113,788
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
224,283
  

 Adjustment for fair market value of swap
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,547
) 
 
 
(2,547
) 

 Redemption of Series B Preferred Stock for Common stock
 
 
17
  
 
 
113,771
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(113,788
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,775
  
 
 
3,105
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
26,346
  

 Distributions
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(55,794
) 
 
 
(6,313
) 
 
 
(466
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(62,573
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
$
412
  
 
$
998,483
  
 
$
(270,021
) 
 
$
72,953
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(2,547
) 
 
$
799,280
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements 
  F - 7



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009  (amounts in
thousands)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
  



 



 




 Consolidated net income
  
$
42,504
  
 
$
60,397
  
 
$
56,261
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Loss (gain) on sale of discontinued real estate and other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
(5,483
) 

 Depreciation expense
  
 
86,463
  
 
 
73,347
  
 
 
73,670
  

 Amortization of in-place leases
  
 
28,479
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Amortization loan cost
  
 
5,305
  
 
 
3,325
  
 
 
3,090
  

 Debt premium amortization
  
 
(1,817
) 
 
 
13
  
 
 
(1,232
) 

 Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures
  
 
(3,176
) 
 
 
(3,245
) 
 
 
(4,146
) 

 Distributions from unconsolidated joint ventures
  
 
1,841
  
 
 
2,831
  
 
 
2,936
  

 Amortization of stock-related compensation
  
 
5,762
  
 
 
5,436
  
 
 
4,655
  

 Revenue recognized from right-to-use contract upfront payment
  
 
(5,920
) 
 
 
(4,640
) 
 
 
(2,644
) 

 Commission expense recognized related to right-to-use contracts
  
 
1,946
  
 
 
1,432
  
 
 
821
  

 Accrued long term incentive plan compensation
  
 
1,813
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
1,053
  

 Increase in provision for uncollectible rents receivable
  
 
1,534
  
 
 
517
  
 
 
654
  

 Increase in provision for inventory reserve
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
839
  

 Changes in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Notes receivable activity, net
  
 
477
  
 
 
494
  
 
 
136
  

 Rent and other customer receivables, net
  
 
(2,270
) 
 
 
(516
) 
 
 
(40
) 

 Inventory
  
 
2,396
  
 
 
3,524
  
 
 
2,060
  

 Deferred commission expense
  
 
(6,735
) 
 
 
(6,957
) 
 
 
(6,550
) 

 Escrow deposits and other assets
  
 
(8,484
) 
 
 
7,730
  
 
 
7,825
  

 Goodwill impairment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,635
  
 
 
—  
  

 Accrued payroll and other operating expenses
  
 
6,736
  
 
 
(7,886
) 
 
 
(3,504
) 

 Deferred revenue—upfront payments from right-to-use contracts
  
 
17,856
  
 
 
19,496
  
 
 
21,526
  

 Deferred revenue—right-to-use annual payments
  
 
(765
) 
 
 
39
  
 
 
(1,564
) 

 Rents received in advance and security deposits
  
 
1,696
  
 
 
3,381
  
 
 
162
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
175,641
  
 
 
163,309
  
 
 
150,525
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
  



 



 




 Acquisition of real estate and other
  
 
(651,089
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,219
) 

 Acquisition of notes receivable
  
 
(40,362
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from disposition of rental properties and other
  
 
252
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,278
  

 Net tax-deferred exchange withdrawal (deposit)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
(786
) 

 Proceeds from (purchase of) short-term investments
  
 
52,266
  
 
 
(52,266
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Net (borrowings) repayments of notes receivable
  
 
(883
) 
 
 
1,176
  
 
 
949
  

 Capital improvements
  
 
(62,032
) 
 
 
(48,629
) 
 
 
(30,114
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(701,848
) 
 
 
(98,933
) 
 
 
(34,892
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements 
  F - 8



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009  (amounts in
thousands)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
  



 



 




 Net proceeds from stock options and employee stock purchase plan
  
 
5,484
  
 
 
2,182
  
 
 
4,883
  

 Net proceeds from issuance of Common Stock
  
 
344,049
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
146,363
  

 Distributions to Common Stockholders, Common OP Unitholders, Perpetual Preferred OP Unitholders, and Preferred
Stockholders
  
 
(72,420
) 
 
 
(58,600
) 
 
 
(48,109
) 

 Stock repurchase and Unit redemption
  
 
(1,682
) 
 
 
(2,054
) 
 
 
(1,381
) 

 Acquisition of non-controlling interests
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,581
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Lines of credit:
  



 



 




 Proceeds
  
 
50,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50,900
  

 Repayments
  
 
(50,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(143,900
) 

 Principal payments and mortgage debt payoff
  
 
(75,658
) 
 
 
(211,656
) 
 
 
(130,235
) 

 New mortgage notes payable financing proceeds
  
 
200,000
  
 
 
76,615
  
 
 
107,264
  

 Term loan financing proceeds
  
 
200,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Debt issuance costs
  
 
(15,765
) 
 
 
(1,751
) 
 
 
(1,602
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
584,008
  
 
 
(196,845
) 
 
 
(15,817
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
57,801
  
 
 
(132,469
) 
 
 
99,816
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year
  
 
12,659
  
 
 
145,128
  
 
 
45,312
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year
  
$
70,460
  
 
$
12,659
  
 
$
145,128
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental Information:
  



 



 




 Cash paid during the period for interest
  
$
99,816
  
 
$
87,888
  
 
$
96,030
  

 Non-cash activities (increase (decrease)):
  



 



 




 Inventory reclassified to Buildings and other depreciable property
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
6,727
  

 Manufactured homes acquired with dealer financing
  
$
830
  
 
$
3,674
  
 
$
1,389
  

 Dealer financing
  
$
830
  
 
$
3,674
  
 
$
1,389
  

 Capital improvements
  
$
2,685
  
 
$
566
  
 
$
763
  

 Net repayments of notes receivable
  
$
(2,685
) 
 
$
(566
) 
 
$
(763
) 

 Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock
  
$
200,000
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Perpetual Preferred OP United conversion
  
$
(200,000
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Acquisitions
  



 



 




 Inventory
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
185
  

 Escrow deposits and other assets
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
11,267
  

 Accrued payroll and other operating expenses
  
$
2,643
  
 
$
(164
) 
 
$
5,195
  

 Accrued interest payable
  
$
114
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Notes receivable
  
$
—  
  
 
$
(2,556
) 
 
$
763
  

 Rents and other customer payments received in advance and security deposits
  
$
4,800
  
 
$
(76
) 
 
$
3,933
  

 Investment in real estate
  
$
1,431,339
  
 
$
2,796
  
 
$
18,879
  

 Common Stock issued
  
$
110,495
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Series B Subordinated Non-Voting Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock issued
  
$
113,788
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Debt assumed and financed on acquisition
  
$
548,410
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
11,851
  

 Dispositions
  



 



 




 Other assets and liabilities, net
  
$
252
  
 
$
(97
) 
 
$
(14
) 

 Investment in real estate
  
$
—  
  
 
$
(3,531
) 
 
$
(13,831
) 

 Mortgage notes payable assumed by purchaser
  
$
—  
  
 
$
(3,628
) 
 
$
(10,539
) 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements 
  F - 9



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1—Organization of the Company and Basis of Presentation  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation, together with MHC Operating Limited Partnership (the “Operating Partnership”) and other consolidated subsidiaries (the
“Subsidiaries”), is referred to herein as the “Company” and “ELS.” The Company is a fully integrated owner and operator of lifestyle-oriented properties (“Properties”). The Company leases individual developed
areas (“sites”) with access to utilities for placement of factory built homes, cottages, cabins or recreational vehicles (“RVs”). Properties are designed and improved for several home options of various sizes and designs that are
produced off-site, installed and set on designated sites (“Site Set”) within the Properties. At certain Properties, the Company provides access to its sites through right-to-use or membership contracts. The Company believes that it has
qualified for taxation as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes since its taxable year ended December 31, 1993. The Company plans to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many
of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The Company cannot, therefore, guarantee that it has qualified or will qualify in the future as a REIT. The determination that the Company is a REIT requires an analysis of various
factual matters that may not be totally within its control and it cannot provide any assurance that the IRS will agree with its analysis. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of the Company’s gross income must come from sources that
are itemized in the REIT tax laws. The Company is also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income computed without regard to its deduction for dividends paid and its net capital gain. As of December 31, 2011,
the Company has net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $88 million that can be utilized to offset future distribution requirements. The fact that the Company holds its assets through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries further
complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize the Company’s REIT qualification. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the
courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the Company to remain qualified as a REIT. The Company does not believe, however, that any pending or proposed tax law changes would jeopardize its REIT qualification.
 If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular
corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS granted the Company relief under certain statutory provisions, it would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a
REIT, the Company is subject to certain foreign, state and local taxes on its income and property and U.S. federal income and excise taxes on its undistributed income. 
The operations of the Company are conducted primarily through the Operating Partnership. The Company contributed the
proceeds from its initial public offering and subsequent offerings to the Operating Partnership for a general partnership interest. In 2004, the general partnership interest was contributed to MHC Trust, a private REIT subsidiary owned by the
Company. The financial results of the Operating Partnership and the Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, since certain activities, if performed by the Company, may cause the Company to
earn income which is not qualifying for the REIT gross income tests, the Company has formed taxable REIT subsidiaries, as defined in the Code, to engage in such activities. 
Several Properties are wholly owned by taxable REIT subsidiaries of the Company. In addition, Realty Systems, Inc.
(“RSI”) is a wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiary of the Company that is engaged in the business of purchasing and selling or leasing Site Set homes that are located in Properties owned and managed by the Company. RSI also provides
brokerage services to residents at such Properties for those residents who move from a Property but do not relocate their homes. RSI may provide brokerage services, in competition with other local brokers, by seeking buyers for the Site Set homes.
Subsidiaries of RSI also operate ancillary activities at certain Properties consisting of operations such as golf courses, pro shops, stores and restaurants. 
  F - 10



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 1—Organization of the Company and Basis of Presentation (continued) 
 
The limited partners of the Operating Partnership (the “Common OP
Unitholders”) receive an allocation of net income that is based on their respective ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership that is shown on the Consolidated Financial Statements as Non-controlling interests—Common OP Units. As
of December 31, 2011, the Non-Controlling Interests—Common OP Units represented 4,103,067 units of limited partnership interest (“OP Units”) which are convertible into an equivalent number of shares of the Company’s common
stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or Common OP Units changes the respective ownership of the Operating Partnership for the Non-controlling interests—Common OP Units. 
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   


(a)
 Basis of Consolidation  The Company consolidates its majority-owned subsidiaries in which it has the ability to control the operations of the subsidiaries and all variable interest entities with respect to which the Company is
the primary beneficiary. The Company also consolidates entities in which it has a controlling direct or indirect voting interest. All inter-company transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. For business combinations for which the
acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009, the purchase price of Properties is accounted for in accordance with the Codification Topic “Business Combinations” (“FASB ASC 805”). 
The Company has applied the Codification Sub-Topic “Variable Interest Entities” (“FASB ASC
810-10-15”). The objective of FASB ASC 810-10-15 is to provide guidance on how to identify a variable interest entity (“VIE”) and determine when the assets, liabilities, non-controlling interests, and results of operations of a VIE
need to be included in a company’s consolidated financial statements. Prior to January 1, 2010, a company that held a variable interest in an entity was required to consolidate such entity if the company absorbed a majority of the
entity’s expected losses or received a majority of the entity’s expected residual returns if they occur, or both (i.e., the primary beneficiary). The Company also applied the Codification Sub-Topic “Control of Partnerships and Similar
Entities” (“FASB ASC 810-20”), which determines whether a general partner or the general partners as a group controls a limited partnership or similar entity and therefore should consolidate the entity. Beginning January 1, 2010,
the Codification Sub-Topic ASC 810-10-15 adopted amendments to the variable interest consolidation model described above. The requirement to consolidate a VIE as revised in this amendment is based on the qualitative analysis considerations for
primary beneficiary determination which requires a company consolidate an entity determined to be a VIE if it has both of the following characteristics: (1) the power to direct the principal activities of the entity and (2) the obligation
to absorb the expected losses or the right to receive the residual returns that could be significant the entity. The Company applies apply FASB ASC 810-10-15 and FASB ASC 810-20 to all types of entity ownership (general and limited partnerships and
corporate interests).  The Company applies the equity method of accounting to entities in which the Company
does not have a controlling direct or indirect voting interest or for variable interest entities where it is not considered the primary beneficiary, but can exercise influence over the entity with respect to its operations and major decisions. The
cost method is applied when (i) the investment is minimal (typically less than 5%) and (ii) the Company’s investment is passive.   


(b)
 Use of Estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets 
  F - 11



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 

and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. All property, site counts and acreage amounts are unaudited.   


(c)
 Markets  The Company has two reportable segments which are the Property Operations and Home Sales and Rental Operations segments. The Property Operations segment owns and operates land lease Properties and the
Home Sales and Rental Operations segment purchases, sells and leases homes at the Properties. The distribution of the Properties throughout the United States reflects the Company’s belief that geographic diversification helps insulate the
portfolio from regional economic influences. The Company intends to target new acquisitions in or near markets where the Properties are located and will also consider acquisitions of Properties outside such markets. 
 


(d)
 Real Estate  In accordance with FASB ASC 805, the Company recognizes all the assets acquired and all the liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value. The Company also expenses transaction
costs as they are incurred. Certain purchase price adjustments may be made within one year following any acquisition and applied retroactively to the date of acquisition. 
In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources,
including independent appraisals or valuations that may be available in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective Property and other market data. The Company also considers information obtained about each Property as a result of
its due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  Real estate is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company generally uses a 30-year
estimated life for buildings and structural and land improvements acquired (including site development), a ten-year estimated life for building upgrades, a five-year estimated life for furniture, fixtures and equipment and a one-year life for
acquired in-place leases. New rental units are generally depreciated using a 20-year estimated life from each model year down to a salvage value of 40% of the original costs. Used rental units are generally depreciated based on the estimated life of
the unit with no estimated salvage value.  Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to
operations as incurred and significant renovations and improvements that improve the asset and extend the useful life of the asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life. 
The values of above-and below-market leases are amortized and recorded as either an increase (in the case of below-market
leases) or a decrease (in the case of above-market leases) to rental income over the remaining term of the associated lease. The value associated with in-place leases is amortized over the expected term, which includes an estimated probability of
lease renewal.  In accordance with the Codification Sub-Topic “Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived
Assets” (“FASB ASC 360-10-35”), the Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets to be held and used, including its investments in real estate, for impairment indicators. The Company’s judgments regarding the existence of
impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions and legal factors. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is
warranted. 
  F - 12



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
For long-lived assets to be held and used, if an impairment indicator
exists, the Company compares the expected future undiscounted cash flows against the carrying amount of that asset. If the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset, the Company would record an
impairment loss for the carrying amount in excess of the estimated fair value, if any, of the asset.  For
Properties to be disposed of, an impairment loss is recognized when the fair value of the Property, less the estimated cost to sell, is less than the carrying amount of the Property measured at the time the Company has made the decision to dispose
of the Property, has a commitment to sell the Property and/or is actively marketing the Property for sale. A Property to be disposed of is reported at the lower of its carrying amount or its estimated fair value, less costs to sell. Subsequent to
the date that a Property is held for disposition, depreciation expense is not recorded. The Company accounts for its Properties held for disposition in accordance with FASB ASC 360-10-35. Accordingly, the results of operations for all assets sold or
held for sale have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented.   


(e)
 Identified Intangibles and Goodwill 
The Company records acquired intangible assets at their estimated fair value separate and apart from goodwill. The Company
amortizes identified intangible assets and liabilities that are determined to have finite lives over the period the assets and liabilities are expected to contribute directly or indirectly to the future cash flows of the property or business
acquired. In accordance with FASB ASC 360-10-35, intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is
recognized if the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value.  The excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the net of the amounts assigned to assets acquired (including identified intangible assets) and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. In accordance
with Codification Topic “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“FASB ASC 350”), goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at a level of reporting referred to as a reporting unit on an annual basis, or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.  As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the carrying amounts of identified intangible assets and goodwill, a component of “Escrow deposits and other assets” on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, were approximately $12.1 million and
$15.9 million respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, this amount was comprised of approximately $4.3 million and $8.1 million, respectively, of identified intangible assets and approximately $7.8 million of goodwill. Accumulated
amortization of identified intangibles assets was approximately $1.2 million and $1.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Amortization expense for the identified intangible assets was approximately $1.9 million and $0.9
million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized a non-cash charge for $3.6 million of goodwill related to the August 2009 acquisition of a small Florida
internet and media based advertising business to reduce the carrying value of the business to its approximate fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company sold the Florida internet and media based advertising business and
disposed of $3.5 million of intangibles and approximately $2.0 million of related accumulated amortization of identified intangible assets. 
  F - 13



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
Estimated amortization of identified intangible assets for each of the
next five years are as follows (amounts in thousands):   








 Year ending December 31,
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
349
  

 2013
  
$
349
  

 2014
  
$
349
  

 2015
  
$
349
  

 2016
  
$
251
  
  


(f)
 Cash and Cash Equivalents  The Company considers all demand and money market accounts and certificates of deposit with a maturity date, when purchased, of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The cash and cash equivalents
as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 include approximately $4.2 and $3.0 million, respectively, of restricted cash.   


(g)
 Short-term Investments  The Company’s short-term investments consist of U.S. Treasury Bills with maturity dates in excess of three months which are treated as held-to-maturity and are carried at the amortized cost. All U.S.
Treasury Bills held as of December 31, 2010 matured and were redeemed during the year ended December 31, 2011.   


(h)
 Notes Receivable  Notes receivable generally are stated at their outstanding unpaid principal balances net of any deferred fees or costs on originated loans, unamortized discounts or premiums, and an allowance. Interest
income is accrued on the unpaid principal balance. Discounts or premiums are amortized to income using the interest method. In certain cases the Company finances the sales of homes to its customers (referred to as “Chattel Loans”) which
loans are secured by the homes. The valuation of an allowance for doubtful accounts for the Chattel Loans is calculated based on delinquency trends and a comparison of the outstanding principal balance of each note compared to the N.A.D.A. (National
Automobile Dealers Association) value and the current estimated market value of the underlying manufactured home collateral.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company purchased Chattel Loans that were recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition under the Codification Topic “Loans and Debt Securities
Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality” (“FASB ASC 310-30”). (See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for a detailed description of our recent Acquisition.) The fair value of these
Chattel Loans includes an estimate of losses that are expected to be incurred over the estimated remaining lives of the receivables, and therefore no allowance for losses was recorded for these Chattel Loans as of the transaction date. The fair
value is estimated based on a number of factors including customer delinquency status, FICO scores, the original down payment amount and below-market stated interest rates. Through December 31, 2011, the credit performance of these Chattel
Loans has generally been consistent with the assumptions used in determining its initial fair value, and the Company’s original expectations regarding the amounts and timing of future cash flows has not changed. A probable decrease in
management’s expectation of future cash collections related to these Chattel Loans could result in the need to record an allowance for credit losses in the future. Due to the size of the Chattel Loan pool and maturity dates ranging up to 29
years, future credit losses or changes to interest income could be significant. 
  F - 14



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
The Company also provides financing for nonrefundable upfront payments
on entering or upgrades of right-to-use contracts (“Contracts Receivable”). Based upon historical collection rates and current economic trends, when an up-front payment is financed, a reserve is established for a portion of the Contracts
Receivable balance estimated to be uncollectible. The reserve and the rate at which the Company provides for losses on its Contracts Receivable could be increased or decreased in the future based on its actual collection experience. (See Note 7 in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.)  On August 14, 2008, the
Company purchased Contracts Receivable that were recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition under the FASB ASC 310-30. The fair value of these Contracts Receivable included an estimate of losses that were expected to be incurred over the
estimated life of the Contracts Receivable, and therefore no allowance for losses was recorded for these Contracts Receivable as of the transaction date. Through December 31, 2011, the credit performance of these Contracts Receivable has been
better than the assumptions used in determining its initial fair value, and the Company has recently updated its expectations regarding the amounts and timing of future cash flows. A probable decrease in management’s expectation of future cash
collections related to these Contracts Receivable could result in the need to record an allowance for credit losses in the future. A significant and probable increase in expected cash flows would generally result in an increase in interest income
recognized over the remaining life of the underlying pool of Contracts Receivable.   


(i)
 Investments in Joint Ventures  Investments in joint ventures in which the Company does not have a controlling direct or indirect voting interest, but can exercise significant influence over the entity with respect to its operations and
major decisions, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting whereby the cost of an investment is adjusted for the Company’s share of the equity in net income or loss from the date of acquisition and reduced by distributions
received. The income or loss of each entity is allocated in accordance with the provisions of the applicable operating agreements. The allocation provisions in these agreements may differ from the ownership interests held by each investor.
Differences between the carrying amount of the Company’s investment in the respective entities and the Company’s share of the underlying equity of such unconsolidated entities are amortized over the respective lives of the underlying
assets, as applicable. (See Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.)   


(j)
 Insurance Claims  The Properties are covered against losses caused by various events including fire, flood, property damage, earthquake, windstorm and business interruption by insurance policies containing various
deductible requirements and coverage limits. Recoverable costs are classified in other assets as incurred. Insurance proceeds are applied against the asset when received. Recoverable costs relating to capital items are treated in accordance with the
Company’s capitalization policy. The book value of the original capital item is written off once the value of the impaired asset has been determined. Insurance proceeds relating to the capital costs are recorded as income in the period they are
received.  Approximately 70 Florida Properties suffered damage from five hurricanes that struck the state
during 2004 and 2005. The Company estimates its total claim to be approximately $21.0 million and has made claims for full recovery of these amounts, subject to deductibles. 
  F - 15



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
The Company has received proceeds from insurance carriers of
approximately $14.7 million through December 31, 2011. The proceeds were accounted for in accordance with the Codification Topic “Contingencies” (“FASB ASC 450”). During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
approximately $2.6 million, $0.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively, has been recognized as a gain on insurance recovery, which is net of approximately $0.9 million, $0.2 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of contingent legal fees and
included in income from other investments, net.  On June 22, 2007, the Company filed a lawsuit related to
some of the unpaid claims against certain insurance carriers and its insurance broker. (See Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion of this lawsuit.) 
 


(k)
 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
Codification Topic “Derivatives and Hedging” (“FASB ASC 815”) provides the disclosure requirements for
derivatives and hedging activities with the intent to provide users of financial statements an enhanced understanding of: (a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how the entity accounts for derivative instruments and
related hedged items, and (c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. Further, qualitative disclosures are required that explain the Company’s
objectives and strategies for using derivatives, as well as quantitative disclosures about the fair value of and gains and losses on derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative instruments.
 As required by FASB ASC 815, the Company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The
Company’s objective in utilizing interest rate derivatives is to add stability to its interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as part
of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements
without exchange of the underlying notional amount. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of
derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in accumulated other comprehensive loss and is subsequently reclassified into earnings on the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the
period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized directly in earnings. (See Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this
Form 10-K.)   


(l)
 Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
The Company’s financial instruments include short-term investments, notes receivable, accounts receivable, accounts
payable, other accrued expenses, interest rate swaps and mortgage notes payable.  Codification Topic
“Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures” (“FASB ASC 820”) establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation
of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels are defined
as follows:  Level 1—Inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical
assets or liabilities in active markets. 
  F - 16



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
Level 2—Inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices
for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. 
Level 3—Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
 At December 31, 2010, the Company’s investments in U.S. Treasury Bills included in short-term
investments of approximately $52.3 million, were classified as held-to-maturity and were measured using unadjusted quoted market prices (Level 1). The Company’s mortgage notes payable, a fair value of approximately $2.2 billion, were measured
using quoted price and observable inputs from similar assets and liabilities (Level 2). At December 31, 2011, the Company’s cash flow hedges of interest rate risk included in accrued payroll and other operating expenses, were measured
using quoted prices and observable inputs from similar assets and liabilities (Level 2). The Company considers its own credit risk as well as the credit risk of its counterparties when evaluating the fair value of its derivatives. Any adjustments
resulting from credit risk are recorded as a change in fair value of derivatives and amortization in the current period Consolidated Statements of Operations. The fair values of the Company’s remaining financial instruments approximate their
carrying or contract values.   


(m)
 Deferred Financing Costs, net  Deferred financing costs, net include fees and costs incurred to obtain long-term financing. The costs are being amortized over the terms of the respective loans on a basis that approximates level yield.
Unamortized deferred financing fees are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date. Upon amendment of the line of credit or refinancing of mortgage debt, unamortized deferred financing fees are accounted for in accordance with,
Codification Sub-Topic “Modifications and Extinguishments” (“FASB ASC 470-50-40”). Accumulated amortization for such costs was $15.1 million and $12.6 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 


(n)
 Revenue Recognition  The Company accounts for leases with its customers as operating leases. Rental income is recognized over the term of the respective lease or the length of a customer’s stay, the majority of which are
for a term of not greater than one year. The Company will reserve for receivables when it believes the ultimate collection is less than probable. The Company’s provision for uncollectible rents receivable was approximately $4.4 million and $3.0
million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 the Company’s revenue was generated by approximately 38.5% and 37.6%, respectively, by Properties located in Florida, approximately
10.8% and 11.5%, respectively, by Properties located in Arizona and approximately 17.8% and 19.4%, respectively, by Properties located in California.  The Company accounts for the entry of right-to-use contracts in accordance with the Codification Topic “Revenue Recognition” (“FASB ASC 605”). A right-to-use contract gives the
customer the right to a set schedule of usage at a specified group of Properties. Customers may choose to upgrade their contracts to increase their usage and the number of Properties they may access. A contract requires the customer to make annual
payments during the term of the contract and may require an upfront nonrefundable payment. The stated term of a right-to-use contract is at least one-year and the customer may renew his contract by continuing to make the annual payments. The Company
will recognize the upfront non-refundable payments over the estimated customer life which, based on historical attrition rates, the Company has estimated to be from one to 31 years. For example, the Company has currently estimated that 7.9% of
customers who enter a new right-to-use contract will 
  F - 17



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 

terminate their contract after five years. Therefore, the upfront nonrefundable payments from 7.9% of the contracts entered in any particular period are amortized on a straight-line basis over a
period of five years as five years is the estimated customer life for 7.9% of the Company’s customers who enter a contract. The historical attrition rates for upgrade contracts are lower than for new contracts, and therefore, the nonrefundable
upfront payments for upgrade contracts are amortized at a different rate than for new contracts. The decision to recognize this revenue in accordance with FASB ASC 605 was made after corresponding during September and October 2008 with the Office of
the Chief Accountant at the SEC.  Right-to-use annual payments by customers under the terms of the
right-to-use contracts are deferred and recognized ratably over the one-year period in which the services are provided.  Income from home sales is recognized when the earnings process is complete. The earnings process is complete when the home has been delivered, the purchaser has accepted the home and title has
transferred.   


(o)
 Non-Controlling Interests  In December 2007, the FASB issued the Codification Topic “Consolidation” (“FASB ASC 810”), an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51. FASB ASC 810 seeks to improve
uniformity and transparency in reporting of the net income attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated financial statements of the reporting entity. The statement requires, among other provisions, the disclosure, clear labeling and
presentation of non-controlling interests in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations. Per FASB ASC 810, a non-controlling interest is the portion of equity (net assets) in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or
indirectly, to a parent. The ownership interests in the subsidiary that are held by owners other than the parent are non-controlling interests. Under FASB ASC 810, such non-controlling interests are reported on the consolidated balance sheets within
equity, separately from the Company’s equity. However, securities that are redeemable for cash or other assets at the option of the holder, not solely within the control of the issuer, must be classified outside of permanent equity. This would
result in certain outside ownership interests being included as redeemable non-controlling interests outside of permanent equity in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company makes this determination based on terms in applicable agreements,
specifically in relation to redemption provisions. Additionally, with respect to non-controlling interests for which the Company has a choice to settle the contract by delivery of its own shares, the Company considered the guidance in the
Codification Topic “Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity” (“FASB ASC 815-40”) to evaluate whether it controls the actions or events necessary to issue the maximum number of shares that could be
required to be delivered under share settlement of the contract.  Net income is allocated to Common OP
Unitholders based on their respective ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership. Such ownership percentage is calculated by dividing the number of Common OP Units held by the Common OP Unitholders (4,103,067 and 4,431,420 at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively) by the total OP Units held by the Common OP Unitholders and the Company. Issuance of additional shares of common stock or Common OP Units changes the percentage ownership of both the Non-controlling
interests – Common OP Units and the Company.  Due in part to the exchange rights (which provide for the
conversion of Common OP Units into shares of common stock on a one-for-one basis), such transactions and the proceeds therefrom are treated as capital transactions and result in an allocation between stockholders’ equity and Non-controlling
Interests to account for the change in the respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership. 
  F - 18



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
In accordance with FASB ASC 810, the Company presents the
non-controlling interest for Common OP Units in the Equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. The caption Common OP Units on the consolidated balance sheets also includes $0.5 million of private REIT Subsidiaries preferred stock. The
Company’s Perpetual Preferred OP Units are presented in the mezzanine section on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010.   


(p)
 Preferred Stock  On March 4, 2011, the Company, on behalf of selling stockholders, closed on a public offering of 8,000,000 shares of 8.034% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (the “Series
A Preferred Stock”), par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, at a price of $24.75 per share. The selling stockholders received the Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for $200 million of previously issued series
D and series F Perpetual Preferred OP Units. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the offering. The Company has the option at anytime to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and
unpaid dividends.  The Company accounts for the Preferred Stock in accordance with the Codification Topic
“Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity—SEC Materials” (“FASB ASC 480-10-S99”). Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have certain preference rights with respect to the common stock. Based on the Company’s analysis,
the Series A Preferred Stock has been classified as redeemable interests outside of permanent equity in the mezzanine section of the Company Consolidated Balance Sheets as a result of certain registration requirements or other terms. 
 


(q)
 Income and Other Taxes  Due to the structure of the Company as a REIT, the results of operations contain no provision for U.S. federal income taxes for the REIT, but the Company is still subject to certain foreign, state and
local income, excise or franchise taxes. In addition, the Company has several taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”) which are subject to federal and state income taxes at regular corporate tax rates. Overall, the TRSs have federal net
operating loss carryforwards. No net tax benefits have been recorded by the TRSs since it is not considered more likely than not that the deferred tax asset related to the TRSs net operating loss carryforwards will be utilized. 
The Company adopted the provisions of Codification Topic “Income Taxes” (“FASB 740”) on
January 1, 2007. The adoption of FASB 740 resulted in no impact to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company or one of its subsidiaries files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state
jurisdictions and Canada. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2006. 
As of December 31, 2011, net investment in real estate and notes receivable had a U.S. federal tax basis of
approximately $2.6 billion (unaudited) and $75.7 million (unaudited), respectively. 
  F - 19



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, the
Company’s tax treatment of distributions are as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Tax status of Common Shares distributions deemed paid during the year:
  



  



  




 Ordinary income
  
$
1.125
  
  
$
1.15
  
  
$
0.72
  

 Long-term capital gain
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.05
  
  
 
0.24
  

 Unrecaptured section 1250 gain
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.14
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Distributions declared per Common Share outstanding
  
$
1.125
  
  
$
1.20
  
  
$
1.10
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The quarterly distribution paid on January 13, 2012 of $0.375 per common share will
be considered a distribution made in 2012 for U.S. federal income tax purposes.   


(r)
 Stock-Based Compensation  The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with the Codification Topic “Stock Compensation” (“FASB ASC 718”). The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton formula to
estimate the value of stock options granted to employees, consultants and directors. (See Note 14 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.) 
 


(s)
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2010-06, “Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements” (“ASU 2010-06”), which expands required
disclosures related to an entity’s fair value measurements. Certain provisions of ASU 2010-06 were effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, and the Company adopted those provisions as of
January 1, 2010. The remaining provisions, which were effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010, require additional disclosures related to purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in an
entity’s reconciliation of recurring level three investments. The Company adopted the final provisions of ASU 2010-06 as of January 1, 2011. The adoption of ASU 2010-06 did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
 In December 2010, FASB issued ASU No. 2010-29, “Business Combinations (Topic 805): Disclosure of
Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations.” This ASU specifies that when financial statements are presented, the revenue and earnings of the combined entity should be disclosed as though the business combination that
occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. ASU No. 2010-29 is effective for business combinations with acquisition dates on or after January 1, 2011. The adoption
of this update increased the required disclosures for the Company’s Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements by requiring the Company to disclose pro forma information. (See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained
in this Form 10-K.)  In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-28, “Intangibles-Goodwill and
Other (Topic 350): When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts.” This ASU requires that reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts perform Step 2 of the goodwill
impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. ASU No. 2010-28 is effective for the Company beginning with this interim period. The adoption of this update did not have an impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements. 
  F - 20



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, “Fair Value
Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” This ASU is intended to eliminate differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS for fair value measurement and reporting.
ASU No. 2011-04 is effective for the Company beginning the first quarter of 2012. The Company has not yet determined the impact, if any, that the adoption of ASU 2011-04 will have on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
 In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05 “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of
Comprehensive Income.” ASU No. 2011-05 amends current guidance found in FASB ASC 220, “Comprehensive Income.” ASU No. 2011-05 requires entities to present comprehensive income in either: (i) one continuous financial
statement or (ii) two separate but consecutive statements that display net income and the components of other comprehensive income. Totals and individual components of both net income and other comprehensive income must be included in either
presentation. ASU No. 2011-05 is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2012. The Company plans to apply the provisions of this guidance once adopted. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” (“ASU
2011-08”). ASU 2011-08 amends current guidance to allow an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under this amendment an entity would not
be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. ASU 2011-08 applies to all companies
that have goodwill reported in their financial statements. The provisions of ASU 2011-08 are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this update did not have an impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements as the Company has chosen not to adopt this guidance early.   


(t)
 Reclassifications  Certain 2009 and 2010 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. This reclassification had no material effect on the consolidated balance sheets or statements of operations of the
Company.  Note 3—Earnings Per Common Share 
Earnings per common share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Codification Topic “Earnings Per Share” (“FASB ASC 260”) defines the calculation of basic and fully diluted earnings per share. Basic and fully diluted earnings per share are based on the weighted average shares outstanding
during each year and basic earnings per share exclude any dilutive effects of options, warrants and convertible securities. The conversion of OP Units has been excluded from the basic earnings per share calculation. The conversion of an OP Unit for
a share of common stock has no material effect on earnings per common share on a fully diluted basis. 
  F - 21



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 3—Earnings Per Common Share   
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per common share for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in thousands):   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Numerators:
  



  



 




 Income from Continuing Operations:
  



  



 




 Income from continuing operations—basic
  
$
42,504
  
  
$
60,628
  
 
$
51,395
  

 Amounts allocated to dilutive securities
  
 
3,571
  
  
 
5,935
  
 
 
5,433
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations—fully diluted
  
$
46,075
  
  
$
66,563
  
 
$
56,828
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income from Discontinued Operations:
  



  



 




 (Loss) income from discontinued operations—basic
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(199
) 
 
$
4,186
  

 Amounts allocated to dilutive securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(32
) 
 
 
680
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income from discontinued operations—fully diluted
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(231
) 
 
$
4,866
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income Available for Common Shares—Fully Diluted:
  



  



 




 Net income available for Common Shares—basic
  
$
22,775
  
  
$
38,354
  
 
$
34,005
  

 Amounts allocated to dilutive securities
  
 
3,571
  
  
 
5,903
  
 
 
6,113
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income available for Common Shares—fully diluted
  
$
26,346
  
  
$
44,257
  
 
$
40,118
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



  



 




 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—basic
  
 
35,591
  
  
 
30,517
  
 
 
27,582
  

 Effect of dilutive securities:
  



  



 




 Redemption of Common OP Units for Common Shares
  
 
4,260
  
  
 
4,730
  
 
 
5,075
  

 Redemption of Series B Preferred Stock
  
 
153
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Employee stock options and restricted shares
  
 
326
  
  
 
271
  
 
 
287
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—fully diluted
  
 
40,330
  
  
 
35,518
  
 
 
32,944
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per Common Share—Basic:
  



  



 




 Income from continuing operations available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
  
$
1.26
  
 
$
1.08
  

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
  
$
1.26
  
 
$
1.23
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per Common Share—Fully Diluted:
  



  



 




 Income from continuing operations available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
  
$
1.25
  
 
$
1.07
  

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income available for Common Shares
  
$
0.64
  
  
$
1.25
  
 
$
1.22
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F - 22



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 4—Common Stock and Other Equity Related Transactions 
The Company adopted the 1997 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) in July
1997. Pursuant to the ESPP, as amended on May 3, 2006, certain employees and directors of the Company may each annually acquire up to $250,000 of common stock of the Company. The aggregate number of shares of common stock available under the
ESPP shall not exceed 1,000,000, subject to adjustment by the Company’s Board of Directors. The common stock may be purchased monthly at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of: (a) the closing price for a share of common stock on the last
day of the offering period; and (b) the closing price for a share of common stock on the first day of the offering period. Shares of common stock issued through the ESPP for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 14,588,
18,955 and 34,450, respectively.  The following table presents the changes in the Company’s outstanding
common stock for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (excluding OP Units of 4,103,067, 4,431,420, and 4,914,040 outstanding at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively): 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Shares outstanding at January 1,
  
 
30,972,353
  
 
 
30,350,792
  
 
 
25,051,322
  

 Common stock issued through conversion of OP Units
  
 
328,353
  
 
 
482,620
  
 
 
448,501
  

 Common stock issued through exercise of options
  
 
172,384
  
 
 
33,767
  
 
 
213,721
  

 Common stock issued through stock grants
  
 
108,332
  
 
 
121,665
  
 
 
27,000
  

 Common stock issued through ESPP and Dividend Reinvestment Plan
  
 
15,152
  
 
 
20,841
  
 
 
34,769
  

 Common stock repurchased and retired
  
 
(4,150
) 
 
 
(37,332
) 
 
 
(24,521
) 

 Common stock issued through stock offering
  
 
6,037,500
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,600,000
  

 Common stock issued for Acquisition
  
 
1,708,276
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Redemption of Series B Preferred Stock for Common Stock
  
 
1,740,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares outstanding at December 31,
  
 
41,078,200
  
 
 
30,972,353
  
 
 
30,350,792
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s percentage ownership of the
Operating Partnership was approximately 90.9% and 87.5%, respectively. The remaining approximately 9.1% and 12.5%, respectively, was owned by the Common OP Unitholders. 
  F - 23



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 4—Common Stock and Other Equity Related Transactions (continued) 
 
The following regular quarterly distributions have been declared and
paid to common stockholders and common OP Unit non-controlling interests since January 1, 2008:   










 Distribution Amount Per
Share
  
 For the Quarter Ending
  
 Stockholder Record
Date
  
 Payment Date

$0.2500
  
March 31, 2009
  
March 27, 2009
  
April 10, 2009

$0.2500
  
June 30, 2009
  
June 26, 2009
  
July 10, 2009

$0.3000
  
September 30, 2009
  
September 25, 2009
  
October 9, 2009

$0.3000
  
December 31, 2009
  
December 24, 2009
  
January 8, 2010

$0.3000
  
March 31, 2010
  
March 26, 2010
  
April 9, 2010

$0.3000
  
June 30, 2010
  
June 25, 2010
  
July 9, 2010

$0.3000
  
September 30, 2010
  
September 24, 2010
  
October 8, 2010

$0.3000
  
December 31, 2010
  
December 31, 2010
  
January 14, 2011

$0.3750
  
March 31, 2011
  
March 25, 2011
  
April 8, 2011

$0.3750
  
June 30, 2011
  
June 24, 2011
  
July 8, 2011

$0.3750
  
September 30, 2011
  
September 30, 2011
  
October 14, 2011

$0.3750
  
December 31, 2011
  
December 30, 2011
  
January 13,2012
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued 1,708,276 shares of
common stock and 1,740,000 shares of Series B Non-Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”), par value $0.01 per share. All of the shares were issued to partially fund the Acquisition discussed in detail in Note 19
in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.  On October 24, 2011,
the Company, on behalf of a selling stockholder, closed on a public offering of 3,162,069 shares of common stock. The 3,162,069 shares of common stock sold included 1,453,793 shares of common stock issued by the Company upon redemption of 1,453,793
shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the offering. On December 23, 2011, the remaining 286,207 Series B Preferred Stock were redeemed for 286,207 shares of common stock. As of the December 31,
2011, the Company did not have any Series B Preferred Stock outstanding.  On June 7, 2011, the Company
issued 6,037,500 shares of common stock in an equity offering for approximately $344.0 million in proceeds, net of offering costs. The proceeds were used to partially fund the Acquisition discussed in detail in Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.  On March 4, 2011, the Company, on behalf of selling
stockholders, closed on a public offering of 8,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, at a price of $24.75 per share. The selling stockholders received the Series A
Preferred Stock in exchange for $200 million of previously issued series D and series F Perpetual Preferred OP Units. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have preference rights with respect to liquidation and distributions over the common stock.
The Company has the option at any time to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the offering. 
On February 23, 2010, the Company acquired the six percent non-controlling interests in The Meadows, a 379-site
property, in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. The gross purchase price was approximately $1.5 million. 
  F - 24



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
On June 29, 2009, the Company issued 4.6 million shares of
common stock in an equity offering for proceeds of approximately $146.4 million, net of offering costs. 
Note 5—Investment in Real Estate 
Land improvements consist primarily of improvements such as grading, landscaping and infrastructure
items such as streets, sidewalks or water mains. Buildings and other depreciable property consist of permanent buildings in the Properties such as clubhouses, laundry facilities, maintenance storage facilities, rental units and furniture, fixtures,
equipment, and in-place leases.  All acquisitions have been accounted for utilizing the acquisition method of
accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations of acquired assets are included in the statements of operations from the dates of acquisition. Certain purchase price adjustments may be made within one year following the acquisition and
applied retroactively to the date of acquisition. The Company acquired all of these Properties from unaffiliated third parties. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 the Company acquired the following Properties (dollars in
millions):   


 
1)
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company acquired 75 Properties with 30,129 sites for a purchase price of approximately $1.5
billion. (See Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion on this acquisition.)   


 
2)
 On April 21, 2010, the Company acquired four resort Properties containing 573 sites for a purchase price of approximately $2.5 million. The
resort properties were acquired pursuant to the exercise of an option.   


 
3)
 On February 13, 2009, the Company acquired the remaining 75% interests in the three Diversified Portfolio joint venture Properties containing
1,144 sites for a purchase price of approximately $17.7 million. The Company assumed $11.8 million of mortgage debt, net of approximately $1.1 million of a fair market value discount. 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company has no properties designated as held for disposition pursuant to FASB ASC
360-10-35.  During the three years ended December 31, 2011, the Company disposed of the following
Properties. Except for Caledonia, the operating results have been reflected in discontinued operations.  1) On
January 10, 2010, the Company defaulted on the mortgage of Creekside, a 165-site all-age manufactured home community located in Wyoming, Michigan. In accordance with FASB ASC 470-60, the Company recorded a loss on disposition of approximately
$0.2 million.  2) On July 20, 2009, the Company sold Casa Village, a 490-site manufactured home Property
in Billings, Montana for a sale price of approximately $12.4 million. The buyer assumed $10.6 million of mortgage debt that had a stated interest rate of 6.02% and were scheduled to mature in 2013. The Company recognized a gain on the sale of
approximately $5.1 million. Cash proceeds from the sale, net of closing costs, were approximately $1.1 million. 
3) On April 17, 2009, the Company sold Caledonia, a 247-site resort Property in Caledonia, Wisconsin, for proceeds
of approximately $2.2 million. The Company recognized a gain on sale of approximately $0.8 million which is included in Income from other investments, net. In addition, the Company received approximately $0.3 million of deferred rent due from the
previous tenant. 
  F - 25



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 5—Investment in Real Estate (continued) 
 
The following table summarizes the combined results of operations of
Properties held for sale or disposed of during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in thousands):   












 
  
2010 (1)
 
 
2009 (2)
 

 Rental income
  
$
—  
  
 
$
1,424
  

 Utility and other income
  
 
—  
  
 
 
96
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property operating revenues
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,520
  

 Property operating expenses
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(758
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from property operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
762
  

 Income from home sales operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
22
  

 Interest and amortization
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(603
) 

 (Loss) gain on real estate
  
 
(231
) 
 
 
4,685
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (loss) income from discontinued operations
  
$
(231
) 
 
$
4,866
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 For the year ended December 31, 2010, includes one Property disposed of in January 2010. 


(2)
 For the year
ended December 31, 2009, includes one Property sold in July 2009 and one Property disposed of in January 2010. 
Note 6—Investment in Joint Ventures 
The Company recorded approximately $1.9 million and $2.0 million of equity in income from
unconsolidated joint ventures, net of approximately $1.2 million of depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company received approximately $1.8 million and $2.8 million in distributions from such
joint ventures, which were classified as a return on capital and were included in operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately $0.1 million and
$0.4 million of the distributions received in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, exceeded the Company’s basis in its joint venture and as such were recorded in income from unconsolidated joint ventures. Distributions
include amounts received from the sale or liquidation of equity in joint venture investments.  On
February 13, 2009, the Company purchased the remaining 75% interest in the Diversified Portfolio joint venture Properties in which the Company had an existing 25% joint venture interest. The Properties are known as Robin Hill in Lenhartsville,
Pennsylvania, Sun Valley in Bowmansville, Pennsylvania and Plymouth Rock in Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin. Also on February 13, 2009, the Company sold its 25% interest in the Diversified Portfolio joint ventures known as Round Top, in Gettysburg,
Pennsylvania and Pine Haven in Ocean View, New Jersey. A gain on sale of approximately $1.1 million was recognized and is included in equity in income from unconsolidated joint ventures. 
  F - 26



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 6—Investment in Joint Ventures (continued) 
 
The following table summarizes the Company’s investment in
unconsolidated joint ventures (with the number of Properties shown parenthetically for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively):   


































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment as of
 
 
JV Income forYears Ended
 

 Investment
 
 Location
 
Numberof Sites
 
 
EconomicInterest 
(a)
 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
December 31,2009
 

 Meadows Investments
 
Various (2,2)
 
 
1,027
  
 
 
50
% 
 
$
580
  
 
$
276
  
 
$
981
  
 
$
1,081
  
 
$
877
  

 Lakeshore Investments
 
Florida (2,2)
 
 
342
  
 
 
65
% 
 
 
124
  
 
 
115
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
238
  
 
 
277
  

 Voyager
 
Arizona (1,1)
 
 
1,706
  
 
 
50
%(b) 
 
 
7,647
  
 
 
8,055
  
 
 
727
  
 
 
642
  
 
 
550
  

 Other(c)
 
Various(0,0)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
20
% 
 
 
206
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
1,192
  


 

 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 

 
 
3,075
  
 



 
$
8,557
  
 
$
8,446
  
 
$
1,948
  
 
$
2,027
  
 
$
2,896
  


 

 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a) 
 The percentages shown approximate the Company’s economic interest as of December 31, 2011. The Company’s legal ownership interest may
differ. 


(b)
 Voyager joint venture primarily consists of a 50% interest in Voyager RV
Resort and 25% interest in the utility plant servicing the Property. 


(c) 
 In February 2009, the Company sold its 25% interest in two Diversified Portfolio joint Ventures. 
Note 7—Notes Receivable 
As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $64.2 million
and $25.7 million in notes receivable, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, included in notes receivable, the Company had approximately $43.4 million and $8.9 million, respectively, in Chattel Loans receivable, which require monthly
principal and interest payments and are collateralized by homes at certain of the Properties. As of December 31, 2011, the Chattel Loans receivable yielded interest at a stated per annum average rate of approximately 7.8% and had an average
term remaining of approximately 15 years. These notes are recorded net of allowances of approximately $0.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately $2.6 million and $0.8
million, respectively, was repaid and an additional $0.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively, was loaned to customers. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company acquired approximately $40.4 million of Chattel Loans in connection
with the Acquisition. (See Note 2(h) in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for discussion on the Company’s accounting policy with respect to these recently acquired Chattel Loans.) (See Note 19 in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the Company’s recent Acquisition.)  As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $16.4 million and $16.7 million, respectively, of Contracts Receivable, including allowances of approximately $1.0
million and $1.4 million, respectively. These Contracts Receivable represent loans to customers who have purchased right-to-use contracts. The Contracts Receivable yield interest at a stated per annum average rate of 16.1%, have a weighted average
term remaining of approximately four years and require monthly payments of principal and interest. During the periods ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately $7.3 million and $8.6 million, respectively, was repaid and an additional $6.6
million and $7.9 million, respectively, was lent to customers.  On April 6, 2011, the Company funded a
$3.8 million note receivable with a stated interest rate of 15.0% per annum to the owner of Lakeland RV. Lakeland RV is a 700-site RV property located in Milton, Wisconsin. The note requires interest only payments of 9.0% and matures on
May 1, 2016. The Company also holds a right of first refusal to match any offer received on Lakeland RV during the time the note is outstanding. 
  F - 27



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 8—Borrowing Arrangements 
Secured Debt  2011
Activity  As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had outstanding mortgage
indebtedness on Properties held for long term of approximately $2,084 million and $1,413 million, respectively. The weighted average interest rate, including the fair market value adjustment, on this mortgage indebtedness for the year ended
December 31, 2011 was approximately 5.8% per annum. The debt bears interest at stated rates of 4.7% to 8.9% per annum and matures on various dates ranging from 2012 to 2023. The debt encumbered a total of 174 and 129 of the
Company’s Properties as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and the carrying value of such Properties was approximately $2,578 million and $1,508 million, respectively, as of such dates. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid off nine maturing mortgages totalling approximately $52.5
million, with a weighted average interest rate of 7.04% per annum.  During the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Company closed on approximately $200.0 million of new financing on 20 manufactured home communities and three resort properties with a weighted average interest rate of 5.02% per annum, maturing in 2021. The Company
also assumed approximately $548 million of mortgage debt which includes a fair value adjustment of approximately $34 million secured by 35 Acquisition Properties (as defined herein) with stated interest rates ranging from 4.65% to 8.87% per
annum, maturing in various years ranging from 2012 to 2023.  2010 Activity 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company closed on approximately $76.6 million of new financing, on four
manufactured home properties, with a weighted average interest rate of 6.83%. The Company used the proceeds from the financing to pay off approximately $184.2 million on 13 Properties, with a weighted average interest rate of 6.98%. During the year
ended December 31, 2010, the Company borrowed, and subsequently paid off, approximately $3.7 million, secured by individual manufactured homes.  Term Loan  On July 1, 2011, the Company closed on a
$200.0 million Term Loan that matures on June 30, 2017 and has a one-year extension option, an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.85% to 2.80% per annum and, subject to certain conditions, may be prepaid at any time without premium or penalty
after July 1, 2014. Prior to July 1, 2014, a prepayment penalty of 2% of the amount prepaid would be owed. The spread over LIBOR is variable based on leverage measured quarterly throughout the loan term. The Term Loan contains an upfront
arrangement fee of approximately $0.5 million, an upfront commitment fee of approximately $1.3 million, an annual administrative agency fee of $20,000, as well as customary representations, warranties and negative and affirmative
covenants, and provides for acceleration of principal and payment of all other amounts payable thereunder upon the occurrence of certain events of default. In connection with the Term Loan, the Company also entered into a three-year LIBOR Swap
Agreement (the “Swap”) allowing the Company to trade its variable interest rate for a fixed interest rate on the Term Loan. (See Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for further information
on the accounting of the Swap.) The proceeds were used to partially fund the Acquisition discussed in detail in Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Contained in this Form 10K. 
  F - 28



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 8—Borrowing Arrangements (continued) 
 
Unsecured Line of Credit 
On May 19, 2011, the Company amended its unsecured Line of Credit (“LOC”) to increase its borrowing
capacity under the LOC from $100 million to a maximum borrowing capacity of $380 million and to extend the maturity date to September 18, 2015. The LOC accrues interest at an annual rate equal to the applicable LIBOR rate plus 1.65% to 2.50%
and contains a 0.30% to 0.40% facility fee as well as certain other customary negative and affirmative covenants. The Company has an eight-month extension option under the LOC, subject to payment by it of certain administrative fees and the
satisfaction of certain other enumerated conditions. The spread over LIBOR and the facility fee pricing are variable based on leverage throughout the term of the LOC. The Company incurred commitment and arrangement fees of approximately
$3.6 million to enter into the amended LOC. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s LOC had an
availability of $380 million of which no amounts were outstanding.  The weighted average interest rate for the
years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 for the Company’s unsecured debt was approximately 3.9% and 0.0% per annum, respectively, as no amounts were outstanding on the line of credit at any time during the year ended December 31, 2010.
 Future Maturities of Debt  Aggregate payments of principal on long-term borrowings for each of the next six years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands): 
 








 Year
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
64,156
  

 2013
  
 
149,628
  

 2014
  
 
212,574
  

 2015
  
 
588,535
  

 2016
  
 
235,053
  

 2017
  
 
299,060
  

 Thereafter
  
 
704,305
  

 Net unamortized premiums
  
 
31,372
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,284,683
  


  
  
  
 

Note 9—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk  In June 2011, in connection with the Term Loan, the Company entered into a three-year $200.0 million LIBOR notional swap agreement to trade its variable Term Loan interest rate for a 3.01% fixed rate to
hedge the variable cash flows associated with the Term Loan interest payments. The Swap fixes the underlying LIBOR rate on the Term Loan at 1.11% per annum for the first three years and based on anticipated leverage at the completion of the
Acquisition, the Company’s spread over LIBOR is expected to be 2.15% resulting in an initial estimated all-in interest rate of 3.26% per annum. The Company has designated the swap as a cash flow hedge. No gain or loss was recognized in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations related to hedge ineffectiveness or to amounts excluded from effectiveness testing on the Company’s cash flow hedge during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
  F - 29



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 9—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (continued) 
 
Amounts reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable-rate debt. During the next twelve months, the Company estimates that an additional $1.2 million
will be reclassified as an increase to interest expense.  Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
The table below presents the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments as well as their
classification on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011 (amounts in thousands).   










 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
 Balance Sheet
Location
  
Fair Value
 

 Interest Rate Swap
  
Accrued payroll and other operating expenses
  
$
2,547
  


  

  
  
  
 
 Tabular Disclosure of the Effect of Derivative Instruments on the Income Statement 
The tables below present the effect of the Company’s derivative financial instruments on the Consolidated Statements
of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.   




















 Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging
Relationships
 
Amount of loss recognizedin OCI on derivative(effective portion)
 
 

Location of lossreclassified fromaccumulated OCIinto income(effective portion)
 
Amount of lossreclassified fromaccumulated OCI intoincome
(effectiveportion)
 
 

Location of lossrecognized in incomeon derivative(ineffective portion)
 
Amount of lossrecognized in incomeon derivative(ineffective
portion)
 

 Interest Rate Swap
 
$
3,445
  
 
Interest Expense
 
$
898
  
 
Other Expense
 
$
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of the derivative in a net liability
position, which includes accrued interest and any adjustment for nonperformance risk related to this derivative agreement was $3.4 million. The Company determined that no adjustment was necessary for nonperformance risk on its derivative obligation.
As of December 31, 2011, the Company has not posted any collateral related to this agreement. 
Note 10—Deferred Revenue-entry of right-to-use contracts and Deferred Commission Expense 
Upfront payments received upon the entry of right-to-use contracts are recognized in accordance with
FASB ASC 605. The Company will recognize the upfront non-refundable payments over the estimated customer life, which, based on historical attrition rates, the Company has estimated to be between one to 31 years. The commissions paid on the entry of
right-to-use contracts will be deferred and amortized over the same period as the related sales revenue. 
  F - 30



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 10—Deferred Revenue-entry of right-to-use contracts and Deferred Commission Expense
(continued)   
Components of the change in deferred revenue-entry of right-to-use
contracts and deferred commission expense are as follows (amounts in thousands):   












 
  
 Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred revenue—entry of right-to-use contracts, as of January 1,
  
$
44,349
  
 
$
29,493
  

 Deferral of new right-to-use contracts
  
 
17,856
  
 
 
19,496
  

 Deferred revenue recognized
  
 
(5,920
) 
 
 
(4,640
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in deferred revenue
  
 
11,936
  
 
 
14,856
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred revenue—entry of right-to-use contracts, as of December 31,
  
$
56,285
  
 
$
44,349
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred commission expense, as of January 1,
  
$
14,898
  
 
$
9,373
  

 Costs deferred
  
 
6,735
  
 
 
6,957
  

 Commission expense recognized
  
 
(1,946
) 
 
 
(1,432
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in deferred commission expense
  
 
4,789
  
 
 
5,525
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred commission expense, as of December 31,
  
$
19,687
  
 
$
14,898
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Note 11—Lease Agreements 
The leases entered into between the customer and the Company for the rental of a site are generally
month-to-month or for a period of one to ten years, renewable upon the consent of the parties or, in some instances, as provided by statute. Non-cancelable long-term leases are in effect at certain sites within approximately 31 of the Properties.
Rental rate increases at these Properties are primarily a function of increases in the Consumer Price Index, taking into consideration certain conditions. Additionally, periodic market rate adjustments are made as deemed appropriate. Future minimum
rents are scheduled to be received under non-cancelable tenant leases at December 31, 2011 as follows (amounts in thousands):   








 Year
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
 61,255
  

 2013
  
 
59,949
  

 2014
  
 
31,386
  

 2015
  
 
17,557
  

 2016
  
 
16,891
  

 Thereafter
  
 
49,903
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
236,941
  


  
  
  
 

  F - 31



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 12—Ground Leases 
The Company leases land under non-cancelable operating leases at certain of the Properties expiring in
various years from 2013 to 2054, with terms which require twelve equal payments per year plus additional rents calculated as a percentage of gross revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, ground lease rent was approximately $2.5 million
and for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, ground lease rent was approximately $1.9 million. Minimum future rental payments under the ground leases as of December 31, 2011 as follows (amounts in thousands): 
 








 Year
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
 3,287
  

 2013
  
 
3,340
  

 2014
  
 
1,915
  

 2015
  
 
1,921
  

 2016
  
 
1,928
  

 Thereafter
  
 
14,898
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
27,289
  


  
  
  
 
 The decrease in future minimum rental payments assumes that the Company will exercise its
option to acquire land at the recently acquired Colony Cove Property on January 1, 2014. The option exercise is subject to certain assumptions and the timing of the option exercise may be before or after January 1, 2014. If the Company
does not exercise its option as planned the ground lease payments will continue at approximately $1.4 million annually for the next 96 years. 
Note 13—Transactions with Related Parties 
Privileged Access  On August 14, 2008, the Company closed on the PA Transaction by acquiring substantially all of the assets and assuming certain liabilities of Privileged Access for an unsecured note payable of $2.0
million which was paid off during the year ended December 31, 2009. Prior to the purchase, Privileged Access had a 12-year lease with the Company for 82 Properties that terminated upon closing. At closing, approximately $4.8 million of
Privileged Access cash was deposited into an escrow account for liabilities that Privileged Access has retained. The terms of the PA Transaction provided for a distribution of $0.1 million of excess escrow funds to Privileged Access and the
remainder to the Company on the two-year anniversary of the PA Transaction. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company received approximately $1.1 million in proceeds from the escrow account. The balance in the escrow account as of
December 31, 2011 was approximately $0.2 million.  Mr. McAdams, the Company’s President from
January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2011, owns 100% of Privileged Access. Effective February 1, 2011, Mr. McAdams became president of a subsidiary of the Company involved in ancillary activities and relinquished his role as President
of the Company. The Company entered into an employment agreement effective as of January 1, 2008 (the “Employment Agreement”) with Mr. McAdams which provided for an initial term of three years which expired on December 31,
2010. The Employment Agreement provided for a minimum annual base salary of $0.3 million, with the option to receive an annual bonus in an amount up to three times his base salary. Mr. McAdams is also subject to a non-compete clause and to
mitigate potential conflicts of interest shall have no authority, on behalf of the Company and its affiliates, to enter into any agreement with any entity controlling, controlled by or affiliated with Privileged Access. Prior to forming Privileged
Access, Mr. McAdams was a member of the Company’s Board of Directors from January 2004 to October 2005. Simultaneous with his appointment as president of Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc., Mr. McAdams resigned as Privileged
Access’s Chairman, President and CEO. However, he was on the board of PATT Holding Company, LLC (“PATT”), a subsidiary of Privileged Access, until the entity was dissolved in 2008. 
  F - 32



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 13—Transactions with Related Parties (continued) 
 
Corporate Headquarters 
The Company leases office space from Two North Riverside Plaza Joint Venture Limited Partnership, an entity affiliated
with Mr. Zell, the Company’s Chairman of the Board. Payments made in accordance with the lease agreement to this entity amounted to approximately $1.0 million, $0.5 million, and $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010, and 2009, respectively. Only seven months of rent was paid during the year ended December 31, 2010 as the first five months of the year were included in the free rent provided by the landlord in connection with a new lease for the office
space that commenced December 1, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $60,000, were accrued with respect to this office lease.  Other  In January 2009, the Company entered into a
consulting agreement with the son of Mr. Howard Walker, to provide assistance with the Company’s internet web marketing strategy. Mr. Walker is Vice-Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors. The consulting agreement was for a
term of six months at a total cost of no more than $48,000 and expired on June 30, 2009. 
Note 14—Stock Option Plan and Stock Grants 
The Company’s Stock Option and Stock Award Plan (the “Plan”) was adopted in December
1992 and amended and restated from time to time, most recently effective March 23, 2001. Pursuant to the Plan, officers, directors, employees and consultants of the Company are offered the opportunity (i) to acquire shares of common stock
through the grant of stock options (“Options”), including non-qualified stock options and, for key employees, incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code; and (ii) to be awarded shares
of common stock (“Restricted Stock Grants”), subject to conditions and restrictions determined by the Compensation, Nominating, and Corporate Governance Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation
Committee”). The Compensation Committee will determine the vesting schedule, if any, of each Option and the term, which term shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant. As to the Options that have been granted through December 31,
2011 to officers and employees, generally, one-third are exercisable one year after the initial grant, one-third are exercisable two years following the date such Options were granted and the remaining one-third are exercisable three years following
the date such Options were granted. Stock Options are awarded at the New York Stock Exchange closing price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date. A maximum of 6,000,000 shares of common stock are available for grant under the Plan and
no more than 250,000 shares may be subject to grants to any one individual in any calendar year.  Grants under
the Plan are made by the Compensation Committee, which determines the individuals eligible to receive awards, the types of awards, and the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to any award. In addition, the terms of two specific types of
awards are contemplated under the Plan:   


 
•
 
 The first type of award is a grant of Options or Restricted Stock Grants of common stock made to each member of the Board at the meeting held
immediately after each annual meeting of the Company’s stockholders. Generally, if the director elects to receive Options, the grant will cover 10,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant. If the director elects to receive a Restricted Stock Grant of common stock, he or she will receive an award of 2,000 shares of common stock. Exercisability or vesting with respect to either type of award will be one-third of the award after
six months, two-thirds of the award after one year, and the full award after two years.   


 
•
 
 The second type of award is a grant of common stock in lieu of 50% of their bonus otherwise payable to individuals with a title of Vice President or
above. A recipient can request that the Compensation Committee pay a greater or lesser portion of the bonus in shares of common stock. 
  F - 33



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 14—Stock Option Plan and Stock Grants (continued) 
 
The Company accounts for its stock-based compensation in accordance with
FASB ASC 718.  Restricted Stock Grants  On January 31, 2011, the Company awarded Restricted Stock Grants for 31,000 shares of common stock at a fair market value of approximately $1.8 million to certain members of the Board of Directors
for services rendered in 2010. One-third of the shares of restricted common stock covered by these awards vests on each of December 31, 2011, December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2013. 
On February 1, 2011, the Company awarded Restricted Stock Grants for 72,665 shares of common stock to certain
members of senior management of the Company. These Restricted Stock Grants will vest on December 31, 2011. The fair market value of these Restricted Stock Grants was approximately $4.2 million as of the date of grant and is recorded as a
compensation expense and paid in capital over the vesting period.  On May 11, 2011, the Company awarded
Restricted Stock Grants for 16,000 shares of common stock at a fair market value of approximately $0.9 million to the Board of Directors. One-third of the shares of restricted common stock covered by these awards vests on each of November 11,
2011, May 11, 2012, and May 11, 2013  On February 1, 2010, the Company awarded Restricted
Stock Grants for 74,665 shares of common stock to certain members of senior management of the Company. These Restricted Stock Grants vested on December 31, 2010. The fair market value of these Restricted Stock Grants was approximately $3.7
million as of the date of grant and was recorded as compensation expense and paid in capital over the vesting period.  On February 1, 2010, the Company awarded Restricted Stock Grants for 31,000 shares of common stock at a fair market value of approximately $1.5 million to certain members of the Board of Directors
for services rendered in 2009. One-third of the shares of restricted common stock covered by these awards vests on each of December 31, 2010, December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2012. 
On May 11, 2010, the Company awarded Restricted Stock Grants for 16,000 shares of common stock at a fair market
value of approximately $0.9 million to the Board of Directors for services rendered in 2009. One-third of the shares of restricted common stock covered by these awards vests on each of November 11, 2010, May 11, 2011, and May 11,
2012.  On February 2, 2009, the Company awarded Restricted Stock Grants for 11,000 shares of common stock
at a fair market value of approximately $0.4 million to members of the Board of Directors for services rendered in 2008. One-third of the shares of restricted common stock covered by these awards vests on each of December 31,
2009, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2011.  On May 12, 2009, the Company awarded
Restricted Stock Grants for 16,000 shares of common stock at a fair market value of approximately $0.6 million to certain members of the Board of Directors for services rendered in 2008. One-third of the Options to purchase common stock and the
shares of restricted common stock covered by these awards vests on each of November 12, 2009, May 12, 2010, and May 12, 2011.  In 2011 and 2010, the Company awarded Restricted Stock Grants for 47,000 shares each year and in 2009, the Company awarded Restricted Stock Grants for 27,000 shares of common stock to directors with a
fair market value of approximately $2,708,000, $2,409,000, and $1,025,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  F - 34



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 14—Stock Option Plan and Stock Grants (continued) 
 
The Company recognized compensation expense of approximately $5.6
million, $5.1 million and $4.1 million related to Restricted Stock Grants in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Compensation expense to be recognized subsequent to December 31, 2011 for Restricted Stock Grants that has not yet vested was
approximately $1.9 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average term of 0.8 years.  Stock Options 
The fair value of each grant is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton model. The following table
includes the assumptions that were made and the estimated fair values:   
















Assumption
  
2011 (1)
 
  
2010 (1)
 
  
2009
 

 Dividend yield
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2.5
% 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2.8
% 

 Expected life
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7 years
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
21.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Estimated Fair Value of Options Granted
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
410,972
  
  


(1)
 No options were
issued during the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.    A summary of the Company’s stock option activity, and related information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 follows: 
 
















 
  
Shares Subject ToOptions
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price Per Share
 
  
Weighted AverageOutstandingContractual Life(in years)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
953,772
  
 
 
34.92
  
  
 
5.4
  

 Options granted
  
 
102,800
  
 
 
37.70
  
  




 Options exercised
  
 
(213,721
) 
 
 
43.34
  
  




 Options canceled
  
 
(1,000
) 
 
 
15.69
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
841,851
  
 
 
39.94
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Options exercised
  
 
(33,767
) 
 
 
32.77
  
  




 Options canceled
  
 
(2,900
) 
 



  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
805,184
  
 
 
40.32
  
  
 
5.1
  

 Options exercised
  
 
(172,384
) 
 
 
26.28
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
632,800
  
 
 
44.14
  
  
 
5.0
  


  
  
  
 
 



  




 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
632,800
  
 
 
44.14
  
  
 
5.0
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



 As of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, 743,345 shares, 851,677 shares and 970,442
shares remained available for grant, respectively; of these 343,528 shares, 451,860 shares and 573,525 shares, respectively, remained available for Restricted Stock Grants. 
  F - 35



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 15—Preferred Stock 
The Company’s Board of Directors is authorized under the Company’s charter, without further
stockholder approval, to issue, from time to time, in one or more series, 10,000,000 shares of $.01 par value preferred stock (the “Preferred Stock”), with specific rights, preferences and other attributes as the Board may determine, which
may include preferences, powers and rights that are senior to the rights of holders of the Company’s common stock. However, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock may require stockholder approval pursuant to the rules and
regulations of The New York Stock Exchange.  On March 4, 2011, the Company, on behalf of selling
stockholders, closed on a public offering of 8,000,000 shares of 8.034% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”), par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, at a
price of $24.75 per share. The selling stockholders received the Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for $200 million of previously issued series D and series F Perpetual Preferred OP Units. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the
offering. The Company has the option at anytime to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued 1,740,000 shares of Series B Subordinated Non-Voting
Cumulative Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”), par value $0.01 per share. The Series B Preferred Stock was issued to partially fund the Acquisition which is discussed in detail in Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K. On October 24, 2011, the Company, on behalf of a selling stockholder, closed on a public offering of 3,162,069 shares of common stock. The 3,162,069 shares of common stock sold included
1,453,793 shares of common stock issued by the Company upon redemption of 1,453,793 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the offering. On December 23, 2011, the remaining
286,207 Series B Preferred Stock were redeemed for 286,207 shares of common stock. As of the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company did not have any Series B Preferred Stock outstanding. 
Note 16—Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan 
On May 11, 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan
(the “2010 LTIP”) to provide a long-term cash bonus opportunity to certain members of the Company’s management. Such Board approval was upon recommendation by the Company’s Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee (the “Committee”).  The total cumulative payment for all participants (the “Eligible
Payment”) is based upon certain performance conditions being met.  The Committee has responsibility for
administering the 2010 LTIP and may use its reasonable discretion to adjust the performance criteria or Eligible Payments to take into account the impact of any major or unforeseen transaction or events. The 2010 LTIP includes 32 participants. The
Company’s executive officers are not participants in the 2010 LTIP. The Eligible Payment will be paid in cash upon completion of the Company’s annual audit for the 2012 fiscal year and upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions as
outlined in the 2010 LTIP and, including employer costs, is currently estimated to be approximately $2.9 million. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had accrued compensation expense of approximately $1.8 million and $0.7 million,
respectively, for the 2010 LTIP including approximately $1.1 million and $0.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  On May 15, 2007, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”) to provide a long-term cash bonus opportunity to certain members of the
Company’s management and 
  F - 36



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 16—Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan (continued) 
 

executive officers. Such Board approval was upon recommendation of the Committee. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and President were not participants in the LTIP. On January 18,
2010, the Committee approved payments under the LTIP of approximately $2.8 million. The approved payments were fully accrued as of December 31, 2009 and were paid in cash on March 3, 2010. 
The Company is accounting for the LTIPs in accordance with FASB ASC 718. The amount accrued for the 2010 LTIP reflects
the Committee’s evaluation of the 2010 LTIP based on forecasts and other information presented to the Committee and are subject to performance in line with forecasts and final evaluation and determination by the Committee. There can be no
assurances that the Company’s estimates of the probable outcome will be representative of the actual outcome. 
Note 17—Savings Plan 
The Company has a qualified retirement plan, with a salary deferral feature designed to qualify under
Section 401 of the Code (the “401(k) Plan”), to cover its employees and those of its Subsidiaries, if any. The 401(k) Plan permits eligible employees of the Company and those of any Subsidiary to defer up to 60% of their eligible
compensation on a pre-tax basis subject to certain maximum amounts. In addition, the Company will match 100% of the participant’s contribution up to the first 3% and then 50% of the next 2% for a maximum potential match of 4%. 
In addition, amounts contributed by the Company will vest, on a prorated basis, according to the participant’s
vesting schedule. After five years of employment with the Company, the participants will be 100% vested for all amounts contributed by the Company. Additionally, a discretionary profit sharing component of the 401(k) Plan provides for a contribution
to be made annually for each participant in an amount, if any, as determined by the Company. All employee contributions are 100% vested. The Company’s contribution to the 401(k) Plan was approximately $1.1 million, $1.0 million, and $0.8
million, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
Note 18—Commitments and Contingencies 
California Rent Control Litigation  City of San Rafael  The Company sued the City of San Rafael
in federal court, challenging its rent control ordinance (the “Ordinance”) on constitutional grounds. The Company believes the litigation was settled by the City’s agreement to amend the ordinance to permit adjustments to market rent
upon turnover. The City subsequently rejected the settlement agreement. The Court refused to enforce the settlement agreement, and submitted to a jury the claim that it had been breached. In October 2002, a jury found no breach of the settlement
agreement.  The Company’s constitutional claims against the City were tried in a bench trial during April
2007. On April 17, 2009, the Court issued its Order for Entry of Judgment in the Company’s favor (the “April 2009 Order”). On June 10, 2009, the Court ordered the City to pay the Company net fees and costs of approximately
$2.1 million. On June 30, 2009, as anticipated by the April 2009 Order, the Court entered final judgment that gradually phased out the City’s site rent regulation scheme that the Court found unconstitutional. Pursuant to the final
judgment, existing residents of the Company’s Property in San Rafael will be able to continue to pay site rent as if the Ordinance were to remain in effect for a period of ten years, enforcement of the Ordinance was immediately enjoined with
respect to new residents of the Property, and the Ordinance will expire entirely ten years from the June 30, 2009 date of judgment. 
  F - 37



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 18—Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 
 
The City and the residents’ association (which intervened in the
case) appealed, and the Company cross-appealed. The briefing has been completed, but a date for oral argument remains to be set by the Court of Appeals.  City of Santee  In June 2003, the Company won a judgment
against the City of Santee in California Superior Court (Case No. 777094). The effect of the judgment was to invalidate, on state law grounds, two rent control ordinances the City of Santee had enforced against the Company and other property
owners. However, the Court allowed the City to continue to enforce a rent control ordinance that predated the two invalid ordinances (the “prior ordinance”). As a result of the judgment the Company was entitled to collect a one-time rent
increase based upon the difference in annual adjustments between the invalid ordinance(s) and the prior ordinance and to adjust its base rents to reflect what the Company could have charged had the prior ordinance been continually in effect. The
City of Santee appealed the judgment. The City and the tenant association also each sued the Company in separate actions alleging that the rent adjustments pursuant to the judgment violated the prior ordinance (Case Nos. GIE 020887 and GIE 020524),
sought to rescind the rent adjustments, and sought refunds of amounts paid, and penalties and damages in these separate actions. As a result of further proceedings and a series of appeals and remands, the Company was required to and did release the
additional rents to the tenant association’s counsel for disbursement to the tenants, and the Company has ceased collecting the disputed rent amounts.  The tenant association continued to seek damages, penalties and fees in their separate action based on the same claims the City made on the tenants’ behalf in the City’s case. The Company moved
for judgment on the pleadings in the tenant association’s case on the ground that the tenant association’s case is moot in light of the result in the City’s case. On November 6, 2008, the Court granted the Company’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend. The tenant association appealed. In June 2010, the Court of Appeal remanded the case for further proceedings, ruling that (i) the mootness finding was not correct when entered but could be
reasserted after the amounts held in escrow have been disbursed to the residents; (ii) there is no basis for the tenant association’s punitive damage claim or its claim under the California Mobile Home Residency Law; and (iii) the
trial court should consider certain of the tenant association’s other claims. On remand, on December 12, 2011, the Court granted the Company’s motion for summary judgment and denied the tenant association’s motion for summary
judgment. On January 9, 2012, the Court entered judgment in favor of the Company, specifying that the tenant association shall recover nothing. On January 26, 2012, the Court set March 30, 2012 as the date for hearing the
Company’s motion for attorneys’ fees and the tenant associations’ motion to reduce the Company’s claim for costs. On February 17, 2012, the tenant association served notice of its intention to request that the Court set
aside the judgment.  In addition, the Company sued the City of Santee in federal court alleging all three of
the ordinances are unconstitutional under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. On October 13, 2010, the District Court: (1) dismissed the Company’s claims without prejudice on the ground that they
were not ripe because the Company had not filed and received from the City a final decision on a rent increase petition, and (2) found that those claims are not foreclosed by any of the state court rulings. On November 10, 2010, the
Company filed a notice of appeal from the District Court’s ruling dismissing the Company’s claims. On April 20, 2011, the appeal was voluntarily dismissed pursuant to stipulation of the parties. 
In order to ripen its claims, the Company filed a rent increase petition with the City. At a hearing held on
October 6, 2011, the City’s Manufactured Home Fair Practices Commission voted to deny that petition, and 
  F - 38



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 18—Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 
 

subsequently entered written findings denying it. The Company appealed that determination to the Santee City Council, which on January 25, 2012 voted to deny the appeal. In view of that
adverse final decision on its rent increase petition, on January 31, 2012 the Company filed a new complaint in federal court alleging that the City’s ordinance effectuates a regulatory and private taking of the Company’s property and
is unconstitutional under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. On February 1, 2012, the Company also filed in state court a petition for a writ of administrative mandamus seeking orders correcting and vacating
the decisions of the City and its Manufactured Home Fair Practices Commission, and directing that the Company’s rent increase petition be granted.  Colony Park  On December 1, 2006, a group of tenants
at the Company’s Colony Park Property in Ceres, California filed a complaint in the California Superior Court for Stanislaus County alleging that the Company had failed to properly maintain the Property and had improperly reduced the services
provided to the tenants, among other allegations. The Company answered the complaint by denying all material allegations and filed a counterclaim for declaratory relief and damages. The case proceeded in Superior Court because the Company’s
motion to compel arbitration was denied and the denial was upheld on appeal. Trial of the case began on July 27, 2010. After just over three months of trial in which the plaintiffs asked the jury to award a total of approximately $6.8 million
in damages, the jury rendered verdicts awarding a total of less than $44,000 to six out of the 72 plaintiffs, and awarding nothing to the other 66 plaintiffs. The plaintiff’s who were awarded nothing filed a motion for a new trial or
alternatively for judgment notwithstanding the jury’s verdict, which the Court denied on February 14, 2011. All but 3 of the 66 plaintiffs to whom the jury awarded nothing have appealed, and the appeal is in the briefing stage. 
By orders entered on December 14, 2011, the Court awarded the Company approximately $2.0 million in attorneys’
fees and other costs jointly and severally against the plaintiffs to whom the jury awarded nothing, and awarded no attorneys’ fees or costs to either side with respect to the six plaintiffs to whom the jury awarded less than $44,000. Plaintiffs
have filed an appeal from the approximately $2.0 million award to the Company of attorneys’ fees and other costs.  California Hawaiian
 On April 30, 2009, a group of tenants at the Company’s California Hawaiian Property in San Jose,
California filed a complaint in the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County alleging that the Company has failed to properly maintain the Property and has improperly reduced the services provided to the tenants, among other allegations. The
Company moved to compel arbitration and stay the proceedings, to dismiss the case, and to strike portions of the complaint. By order dated October 8, 2009, the Court granted the Company’s motion to compel arbitration and stayed the court
proceedings pending the outcome of the arbitration. The plaintiffs filed with the Court of Appeal a petition for a writ seeking to overturn the trial court’s arbitration and stay orders. On May 10, 2011, the Court of Appeal granted the
petition and ordered the trial court to vacate its order compelling arbitration and to restore the matter to its litigation calendar for further proceedings. On May 24, 2011, the Company filed a petition for rehearing requesting the Court of
Appeal to reconsider its May 10, 2011 decision. On June 8, 2011, the Court of Appeal denied the petition for rehearing. On June 16, 2011, the Company filed with the California Supreme Court a petition for review of the Court of
Appeal’s decision. On August 17, 2011, the California Supreme Court denied the petition for review. The Company believes that the allegations in the complaint are without merit, and intends to vigorously defend the litigation. 
Hurricane Claim Litigation  On June 22, 2007, the Company filed suit in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois (Case No. 07CH16548), against its insurance carriers, Hartford Fire Insurance Company, Essex Insurance
Company, 
  F - 39



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 18—Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 
 

Lexington Insurance Company and Westchester Surplus Lines Insurance Company, regarding a coverage dispute arising from losses suffered by the Company as a result of hurricanes that occurred in
Florida in 2004 and 2005. The Company also brought claims against Aon Risk Services, Inc. of Illinois (“Aon”), the Company’s former insurance broker, regarding the procurement of appropriate insurance coverage for the Company. The
Company is seeking declaratory relief establishing the coverage obligations of its carriers, as well as a judgment for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unfair settlement practices and, as to Aon, for failure
to provide ordinary care in the selling and procuring of insurance. The claims involved in this action are approximately $11 million.  In response to motions to dismiss, the trial court dismissed: (1) the requests for declaratory relief as being duplicative of the claims for breach of contract and (2) certain of the breach of
contract claims as being not ripe until the limits of underlying insurance policies have been exhausted. On or about January 28, 2008, the Company filed its Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), which the insurers answered. In response to
the court’s dismissal of the SAC’s claims against Aon, the Company ultimately filed, on February 2, 2009, a new Count VIII against Aon alleging a claim for breach of contract, which Aon answered. In January 2010, the parties engaged
in a settlement mediation, which did not result in a settlement. In June 2010, the Company filed motions for partial summary judgment against the insurance companies seeking a finding that our hurricane debris cleanup costs are within the extra
expense coverage of our excess insurance policies. On December 13, 2010, the Court granted the motion. Discovery is proceeding with respect to various remaining issues, including the amounts of the debris cleanup costs the Company is entitled
to collect pursuant to the Court’s order granting the Company partial summary judgment.  The Company has
entered settlements of its claims with certain of the insurers and also received additional payments from certain of the insurers since filing the lawsuit, collectively totaling approximately $7.4 million. 
California and Washington Wage Claim Class Actions  On October 16, 2008, the Company was served with a class action lawsuit in California state court filed by a single named plaintiff. The suit alleges that, at the time of the PA Transaction, the
Company and other named defendants willfully failed to pay former California employees of Privileged Access and its affiliates (“PA”) who became employees of the Company all of the wages they earned during their employment with PA,
including accrued vacation time. The suit also alleges that the Company improperly “stripped” those employees of their seniority. The suit asserts claims for alleged violation of the California Labor Code; alleged violation of the
California Business & Professions Code and for alleged unfair business practices; alleged breach of contract; alleged breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing; and for alleged unjust enrichment. The original complaint sought, among
other relief, compensatory and statutory damages; restitution; pre-judgment and post-judgment interest; attorney’s fees, expenses and costs; penalties; and exemplary and punitive damages. The complaint did not specify a dollar amount sought.
The Court granted in part without leave to amend and in part with leave to amend the Company’s motions seeking dismissal of the plaintiff’s original complaint and various amended complaints. Discovery proceeded on the remaining claims in
the third amended complaint. On February 15, 2011, the Court granted plaintiff’s motion for class certification. On June 22, 2011, the Court determined the content of the class notice. 
On December 16, 2008, the Company was served with a class action lawsuit in Washington state court filed by a single
named plaintiff, represented by the same counsel as the plaintiff in the California class action. The complaint asserts on behalf of a putative class of Washington employees of PA who became employees of the Company substantially similar allegations
as are alleged in the California class action. The Company moved to 
  F - 40



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 18—Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 
 

dismiss the complaint. On April 3, 2009, the court dismissed: (1) the first cause of action, which alleged a claim under the Washington Labor Code for failure to pay accrued vacation
time; (2) the second cause of action, which alleged a claim under the Washington Labor Code for unpaid wages on termination; (3) the third cause of action, which alleged a claim under the Washington Labor Code for payment of wages less
than entitled; and (4) the fourth cause of action, which alleged a claim under the Washington Consumer Protection Act. The court did not dismiss the fifth cause of action for breach of contract, the sixth cause of action for breach of the duty
of good faith and fair dealing; or the seventh cause of action for unjust enrichment. On May 22, 2009, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment on the causes of action not previously dismissed, which was denied. With leave of court, the
plaintiff filed an amended complaint, the material allegations of which the Company denied in an answer filed on September 11, 2009. On July 30, 2010, the named plaintiff died as a result of an unrelated accident. 
On November 22, 2011, the parties agreed to a settlement, which remains subject to court approval and other
conditions, the principal terms of which are that, without admitting any liability, the Company would pay $0.5 million in cash, would provide one week of vacation to the vacation balance of any class member who on August 13, 2008 had at least
five years of service with a PA affiliate (the cost of which to the Company would be approximately $0.1 million), and would receive in exchange a full release of all claims, including claims for attorneys’ fees and costs, in both the California
and Washington Class Actions.    Membership Class Action 
On July 29, 2011, the Company was served with a class action lawsuit in California state court filed by two named
plaintiffs, who are husband and wife. Among other allegations, the suit alleges that the plaintiffs purchased a membership in the Company’s Thousand Trails network of campgrounds and paid annual dues; that they were unable to make a reservation
to utilize one of the campgrounds because, they were told, their membership did not permit them to utilize that particular campground; that the Company failed to comply with the written disclosure requirements of various states’ membership
camping statutes; that the Company misrepresented that it provides a money-back guaranty; and that the Company misrepresented that the campgrounds or portions of the campgrounds would be limited to use by members. 
Allegedly on behalf of “between 100,000 and 200,000” putative class members, the suit asserts claims for
alleged violation of: (1) the California Civil Code §§ 1812.300, et seq.; (2) the Arizona Revised Statutes §§ 32-2198, et seq.; (3) Chapter 222 of the Texas Property Code; (4) Florida Code §§
509.001, et seq.; (5) Chapter 119B of the Nevada Administrative Code; (6) Business & Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq., (7) Business & Professions Code §§ 17500; (8) Fraud—Intentional
Misrepresentation and False Promise; (9) Fraud—Omission; (10) Negligent Misrespresentation; and (11) Unjust Enrichment. The complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the membership agreements and refund of the member
dues of plaintiffs and all others who purchased a membership from or paid membership dues to the Company since July 21, 2007; general and special compensatory damages; reasonable attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses of suit; punitive and
exemplary damages; a permanent injunction against the complained of conduct; and pre-judgment interest.  On
August 19, 2011, the Company filed an answer generally denying the allegations of the complaint, and asserting affirmative defenses. On August 23, 2011, the Company removed the case from the California state court to the federal district
court in San Jose. The Company will vigorously defend the lawsuit. 
  F - 41



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 18—Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 
 
Other  The Company is involved in various other legal and regulatory proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Such proceedings include, but are not limited to, notices, consent decrees,
information requests, and additional permit requirements and other similar enforcement actions by governmental agencies relating to the Company’s water and wastewater treatment plants and other waste treatment facilities. Additionally, in the
ordinary course of business, the Company’s operations are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. Management believes that all proceedings herein described or referred to, taken together, are not expected to have a material adverse
impact on the Company. In addition, to the extent any such proceedings or audits relate to newly acquired Properties, the Company considers any potential indemnification obligations of sellers in favor of the Company. 
Note 19—Acquisitions 
On May 31, 2011, the Company’s operating partnership entered into purchase and other
agreements (the “Purchase Agreements”) to acquire a portfolio of 75 manufactured home communities and one RV resort (the “Acquisition Properties”) containing 31,167 sites on approximately 6,500 acres located in 16 states
(primarily located in Florida and the northeastern region of the United States) and certain manufactured homes and loans secured by manufactured homes located at the Acquisition Properties which the Company refers to as the “Home Related
Assets” for a stated purchase price of $1.43 billion (the “Acquisition”). Transaction costs associated with the Acquisition of approximately $18.5 million were incurred during the year ended December 31, 2011. For the year
ended December 31, 2011, the Acquisition Properties, revenues included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Company were approximately $60.0 million. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company closed on 75 of the Acquisition Properties and certain Home
Related Assets associated with such 75 Acquisition Properties for a purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. The Company funded the purchase price of this closing with (i) the issuance of 1,708,276 shares of its common stock, to the seller
with an aggregate value of approximately $111 million, (ii) the issuance of 1,740,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock to the seller with an aggregate value of approximately $113 million, (iii) the assumption of mortgage
debt secured by 35 Acquisition Properties with an aggregate value of approximately $548 million, (iv) the net proceeds of approximately $344 million, net of offering costs, from a common stock offering of 6,037,500 shares,
(v) approximately $200 million of cash from the Term Loan the Company closed on July 1, 2011, and (vi) approximately $200 million of cash from new secured financings originated during the third quarter of 2011. The assumed mortgage
debt has stated interest rates ranging from 4.65% to 8.87% per annum and matures from dates ranging from 2012 to 2023.  The Company is in the process of allocating the purchase price and has engaged a third-party to assist with its allocation for the Acquisition. The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated
fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2011, which we determined using level two and level three inputs (amounts in thousands). The fair value is a preliminary estimate
and may be adjusted within one-year of the Acquisition in accordance with FASB ASC 805. 
  F - 42



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 19—Acquisitions (continued)   
 








 Assets acquired
  




 Land
  
$
474,000
  

 Depreciable property
  
 
859,000
  

 Manufactured homes
  
 
24,000
  

 In-place leases
  
 
74,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Net investment in real estate
  
 
1,431,000
  

 Notes receivable
  
 
40,000
  

 Other assets
  
 
12,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Total Assets acquired
  
 
1,483,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Liabilities assumed
  




 Mortgage notes payable
  
 
548,000
  

 Accrued payroll and other operating expenses
  
 
3,000
  

 Rents and other customer payments received in advance and security deposits
  
 
5,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities assumed
  
 
556,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Net consideration paid
  
$
927,000
  


  
  
  
 
 The allocation of fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed has changed
from the allocation reported in Note 13—Acquisitions of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, filed with the SEC on November 8,
2011, due primarily to reclassification adjustments for presentation adjustments to our valuation assumption and portions of the acquisition which closed subsequent to the third quarter filing. The changes to our valuation assumptions were based on
more recent information concerning the subject assets and liabilities. None of these changes had a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.  The face value of the Chattel Loans at the time of acquisition was approximately $107.9 million and the variance between the face amount and fair value is due to a number of factors including customer
delinquency status, FICO scores, original down payment amount and below market stated interest rates. In estimating its cash flows from these Chattel Loans, the Company currently is making certain assumptions regarding annual default rates and the
value of the repossessed property upon default in order to determine our estimated interest rate that is applied to the net carrying value. Through December 31, 2011, the credit performance of these Chattel Loans has generally been consistent with
the assumptions used in determining its initial fair value, and the Company’s original expectations regarding the amounts and timing of future cash flows has not changed. 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of asset acquired and liability
assumed in the Acquisition.  Land—Market approach based on similar, but not identical, transactions in the
market. Adjustments to comparable sales based on both the quantitative and qualitative data.  Depreciable
property—Cost approach based on market comparable data to replace adjusted for local variations, inflation and other factors.  Manufactured homes—Sales comparison approach based on market prices for similar homes adjusted for differences in age or size. Manufactured homes are included on the Company’s Consolidated
Balance Sheets in buildings and other depreciable property.   
  F - 43



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 19—Acquisitions (continued) 
 
In-place leases—Lease in place was determined via a combination of
estimates of market rental rates and expense reimbursement levels as well as an estimate of the length of time required to replace each lease.  Notes receivable—Income approach based on discounted cash flows discounting contractual cash flows at a market rate adjusted based on particular notes’ or note holders’ down payment, FICO
score and delinquency status.  Below market ground leases—Value of asset (below market lease) based on
contract rent and option price against market rent and land value. Market rent determined applying a reasonable rate of return to the value of the land as if owned. Land value is estimated and then inflated until it is anticipated that the option
will be exercised. Land value is estimated and then inflated until it is anticipated that the option will be exercised. Below market ground leases are included on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets in escrow deposits and other assets.
 Mortgage notes payable—Income approach based on discounted cash flows comparing contractual cash flows to
cash flows of identical debt discounted based on market rates.  The following unaudited pro forma consolidated
results of operations assumes that the Acquisition for the 75 Acquisition Properties and related debt and equity issuances had occurred on January 1, 2010. The unaudited pro forma results of operations is based upon historical financial
statements. The unaudited pro forma results do not purport to represent what the actual results of operations of the Company would have been, nor do they purport to predict the results of operations of future periods. 
 












 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 Total revenues
 
$
676,819
  
 
$
663,976
  

 Net income available for Common Shares(1)
 
$
80,265
  
 
$
1,819
  

 Earnings per Common Share—Basic
 
$
2.05
  
 
$
0.05
  

 Earnings per Common Share—Fully
Diluted (2)
 
$
1.98
  
 
$
0.05
  
  


1. 
 The following expenses, except for f. below, are not reflected in the Unaudited Pro Forma Results of Operations as they are either short-term in
nature or are not reflective of the historical results of the Company or the seller:   


 
a.
 The Company entered into a property management agreement with the seller for a fee of four percent of property revenues beginning on July 1,
2011 and ending on September 30, 2011 for the Acquisition Properties purchased between July 1, 2011 and September 1, 2011.   


 
b.
 The Company entered into a loan servicing agreement, effective July 1, 2011, with respect to the Chattel Loans the Company acquired in the
Acquisition. The loan servicing fee was $55,000 per month and expired on September 30, 2011.   


 
c.
 The Company has estimated that its annual incremental property management expenses associated with the Acquisition are approximately $5.5 million.
  


 
d.
 The Company has estimated that its annual incremental general and administrative expenses associated with the Acquisition, including Chattel Loan
servicing, are approximately $1.6 million.   


 
e.
 Transaction costs related to the Acquisition are not expected to have a continuing impact and therefore have been excluded from these pro forma
results. 
  F - 44



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 19—Acquisitions (continued)   


 
f.
 For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company has estimated the amortization expense of an intangible asset for in-place leases to be
approximately $73.6 million. The estimated useful life for acquired in-place leases is one year.   


2. 
 For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company’s weighted average of approximately 4.7 million common OP Units (which were
dilutive to the Company’s historical operations) were anti-dilutive, and therefore were excluded from the computation of the Pro Forma Earnings per Common Share—Fully Diluted. 
Note 20—Reportable Segments 
Operating segments are defined as components of an entity for which separate financial information is
available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker. The chief operating decision maker evaluates and assesses performance on a monthly basis. Segment operating performance is measured on Net Operating Income
(“NOI”). NOI is defined as total operations revenues less total operations expenses. Segments are assessed before interest income, depreciation and amortization of in-place leases. 
The Company has two reportable segments, which are the Property Operations and Home Sales and Rentals Operations
Segments. The Property Operations segment owns and operates land lease Properties and the Home Sales and Rentals Operations segment purchases, sells and leases homes at the Properties. 
All revenues are from external customers and there is no customer who contributed 10% or more of the Company’s total
revenues during the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
  F - 45



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 20—Reportable Segments (continued) 
 
The following tables summarize the Company’s segment financial
information (amounts in thousands):  Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 
















 
  
PropertyOperations
 
 
Home Salesand 
RentalsOperations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Operations revenues
  
$
560,503
  
 
$
14,848
  
 
$
575,351
  

 Operations expenses
  
 
(279,748
) 
 
 
(16,002
) 
 
 
(295,750
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from segment operations
  
 
280,755
  
 
 
(1,154
) 
 
 
279,601
  

 Interest income
  
 
3,377
  
 
 
3,340
  
 
 
6,717
  

 Depreciation on real estate and other costs
  
 
(79,922
) 
 
 
(59
) 
 
 
(79,981
) 

 Amortization of in-place leases
  
 
(27,707
) 
 
 
(772
) 
 
 
(28,479
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
176,503
  
 
 
1,355
  
 
 
177,858
  

 Reconciliation to Net income available for Common Shares
  



 



 




 Other revenues (a)
  



 



 
 
6,735
  

 General and administrative
  



 



 
 
(23,833
) 

 Transaction costs
  



 



 
 
(18,493
) 

 Depreciation on corporate assets
  



 



 
 
(1,034
) 

 Interest and related amortization
  



 



 
 
(99,668
) 

 Rent control initiatives
  



 



 
 
(1,009
) 

 Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures
  



 



 
 
1,948
  


  



 



 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income 
  



 



 
$
42,504
  


  



 



 
  
  
 

 Total Assets
  
$
3,274,199
  
 
$
221,902
  
 
$
3,496,101
  

 Capital Improvements
  
$
26,224
  
 
$
35,808
  
 
$
62,032
  
  


(a)
 Includes approximately $0.3 million of interest income attributable to corporate operations. 
  F - 46



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 20—Reportable Segments (continued) 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 
















 
  
PropertyOperations
 
 
Home Salesand 
RentalsOperations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Operations revenues
  
$
495,019
  
 
$
11,940
  
 
$
506,959
  

 Operations expenses
  
 
(257,616
) 
 
 
(13,231
) 
 
 
(270,847
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from segment operations
  
 
237,403
  
 
 
(1,291
) 
 
 
236,112
  

 Interest income
  
 
3,263
  
 
 
782
  
 
 
4,045
  

 Depreciation on real estate and other costs
  
 
(68,067
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(68,125
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
172,599
  
 
 
(567
) 
 
 
172,032
  

 Reconciliation to Net income available for Common Shares
  



 



 




 Other revenues (a)
  



 



 
 
6,114
  

 General and administrative
  



 



 
 
(22,559
) 

 Depreciation on corporate assets
  



 



 
 
(1,080
) 

 Interest and related amortization
  



 



 
 
(91,151
) 

 Goodwill impairment
  



 



 
 
(3,635
) 

 Rent control initiatives
  



 



 
 
(1,120
) 

 Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures
  



 



 
 
2,027
  


  



 



 
  
  
 

 Consolidated income from continuing operations
  



 



 
 
60,628
  

 Loss from discontinued operations
  



 



 
 
(231
) 


  



 



 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income
  



 



 
$
60,397
  


  



 



 
  
  
 

 Total Assets
  
$
1,911,021
  
 
$
137,374
  
 
$
2,048,395
  

 Capital Improvements
  
$
28,852
  
 
$
19,777
  
 
$
48,629
  
  


(a)
 Includes approximately $0.4 million of interest income attributable to corporate operations. 
  F - 47



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 20—Reportable Segments (continued) 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2009 
 
















  
 

 
  
PropertyOperations
 
 
Home Salesand 
RentalsOperations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Operations revenues
  
$
482,821
  
 
$
11,686
  
 
$
494,507
  

 Operations expenses
  
 
(253,734
) 
 
 
(14,427
) 
 
 
(268,161
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from segment operations
  
 
229,087
  
 
 
(2,741
) 
 
 
226,346
  

 Interest income
  
 
3,967
  
 
 
995
  
 
 
4,962
  

 Depreciation on real estate and other costs
  
 
(68,893
) 
 
 
(156
) 
 
 
(69,049
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
164,161
  
 
 
(1,902
) 
 
 
162,259
  

 Reconciliation to Net income available for Common Shares
  



 



 




 Other revenues (a)
  



 



 
 
8,325
  

 General and administrative
  



 



 
 
(22,279
) 

 Depreciation on corporate assets
  



 



 
 
(1,039
) 

 Interest and related amortization
  



 



 
 
(98,311
) 

 Rent control initiatives
  



 



 
 
(456
) 

 Equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures
  



 



 
 
2,896
  


  



 



 
  
  
 

 Consolidated income from continuing operations
  



 



 
 
51,395
  

 Loss from discontinued operations
  



 



 
 
4,866
  


  



 



 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income
  



 



 
$
56,261
  


  



 



 
  
  
 

 Total Assets
  
$
2,043,096
  
 
$
123,223
  
 
$
2,166,319
  

 Capital Improvements
  
$
24,475
  
 
$
5,639
  
 
$
30,114
  
  


(a)
 Includes approximately $0.2 million of interest income attributable to corporate operations. 
  F - 48



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 20—Reportable Segments (continued) 
 
The following table summarizes the Company’s financial information
for the Property Operations segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in thousands):   
















 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
December 31,2009
 

 Revenues:
 



 



 




 Community base rental income
 
$
318,851
  
 
$
259,351
  
 
$
253,379
  

 Resort base rental income
 
 
130,489
  
 
 
129,481
  
 
 
124,822
  

 Right-to-use annual payments
 
 
49,122
  
 
 
49,831
  
 
 
50,765
  

 Right-to-use contracts current period, gross
 
 
17,856
  
 
 
19,496
  
 
 
21,526
  

 Right-to-use contracts current period, deferred
 
 
(11,936
) 
 
 
(14,856
) 
 
 
(18,882
) 

 Utility income and other
 
 
53,843
  
 
 
48,357
  
 
 
47,685
  

 Ancillary services revenues, net
 
 
2,278
  
 
 
3,359
  
 
 
3,526
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total property operations revenues
 
 
560,503
  
 
 
495,019
  
 
 
482,821
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 




 Property operating and maintenance
 
 
200,623
  
 
 
185,786
  
 
 
180,870
  

 Real estate taxes
 
 
37,619
  
 
 
32,110
  
 
 
31,674
  

 Sales and marketing, gross
 
 
11,219
  
 
 
12,606
  
 
 
13,536
  

 Sales and marketing deferred commissions, net
 
 
(4,789
) 
 
 
(5,525
) 
 
 
(5,729
) 

 Property management
 
 
35,076
  
 
 
32,639
  
 
 
33,383
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total property operations expenses
 
 
279,748
  
 
 
257,616
  
 
 
253,734
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income from property operations segment
 
$
280,755
  
 
$
237,403
  
 
$
229,087
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following table summarizes the Company’s financial information for the Home
Sales and Rentals Operations segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in thousands):   
















 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
December 31,2009
 

 Revenues:
 



 



 




 Gross revenue from home sales
 
$
6,088
  
 
$
6,120
  
 
$
7,136
  

 Brokered resale revenues, net
 
 
806
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
758
  

 Rental operations revenues (a)
 
 
7,954
  
 
 
4,902
  
 
 
3,792
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
 
 
14,848
  
 
 
11,940
  
 
 
11,686
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 




 Cost of home sales
 
 
5,683
  
 
 
5,396
  
 
 
7,471
  

 Home selling expenses
 
 
1,589
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
2,383
  

 Rental operations expenses
 
 
4,450
  
 
 
2,930
  
 
 
2,212
  

 Rental depreciation
 
 
4,280
  
 
 
2,827
  
 
 
2,361
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
16,002
  
 
 
13,231
  
 
 
14,427
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net loss from home sales and rentals operations
 
$
(1,154
) 
 
$
(1,291
) 
 
$
(2,741
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a) 
 Does not include approximately $23.9 million, $15.4 million, and $12.0 million of site rental income included in Community base rental income for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  F - 49



Table of Contents
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. 
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   
Note 21—Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 
The following is unaudited quarterly data for 2011 and 2010 (amounts in thousands, except for per share
amounts):   




















 2011
  
FirstQuarter3/31
 
  
SecondQuarter 6/30
 
  
ThirdQuarter9/30
 
 
FourthQuarter12/31
 

 Total revenues
  
$
133,455
  
  
$
125,914
  
  
$
161,391
  
 
$
159,313
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
$
25,632
  
  
$
11,654
  
  
$
1,355
  
 
$
3,863
  

 Net income (loss) available for Common Shares
  
$
18,960
  
  
$
6,827
  
  
$
(2,853
) 
 
$
(159
) 

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—Basic
  
 
30,996
  
  
 
32,629
  
  
 
38,346
  
 
 
40,263
  

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—Diluted
  
 
35,609
  
  
 
37,262
  
  
 
43,602
  
 
 
45,296
  

 Net income (loss) per Common Share outstanding—Basic
  
$
0.61
  
  
$
0.21
  
  
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
0.00
  

 Net income (loss) per Common Share outstanding—Diluted
  
$
0.61
  
  
$
0.20
  
  
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
0.00
  
  




















 2010
  
FirstQuarter3/31
 
 
SecondQuarter 6/30
 
 
ThirdQuarter9/30
 
  
FourthQuarter12/31
 

 Total revenues (a)
  
$
132,148
  
 
$
123,845
  
 
$
134,195
  
  
$
121,173
  

 Income from continuing operations (a)
  
$
21,704
  
 
$
11,021
  
 
$
17,307
  
  
$
10,596
  

 Loss from discontinued operations (a)
  
$
(177
) 
 
$
(54
) 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Net income available for Common Shares
  
$
15,064
  
 
$
6,000
  
 
$
11,554
  
  
$
5,736
  

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—Basic
  
 
30,304
  
 
 
30,412
  
 
 
30,620
  
  
 
30,728
  

 Weighted average Common Shares outstanding—Diluted
  
 
35,465
  
 
 
35,506
  
 
 
35,530
  
  
 
35,597
  

 Net income per Common Share outstanding—Basic
  
$
0.50
  
 
$
0.20
  
 
$
0.38
  
  
$
0.19
  

 Net income per Common Share outstanding—Diluted
  
$
0.49
  
 
$
0.20
  
 
$
0.37
  
  
$
0.18
  
  


(a) 
 Amounts may differ from previously disclosed amounts due to reclassification of discontinued operations. 
  F - 50



Table of Contents
Schedule II 
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  December 31, 2011 
 
























 
  
 
 
  
Additions
 
  
 
 

 
  
Balance atBeginning ofPeriod
 
  
Charged toCosts andExpenses
 
  
Charged toOther Accounts
 
  
Deductions (1)
 
 
Balance at Endof Period
 

 For the year ended December 31, 2009:
  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
1,886,000
  
  
$
2,899,000
  
  
$
—  
  
  
($
2,190,000
) 
 
$
2,595,000
  

 For the year ended December 31, 2010:
  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
2,595,000
  
  
$
3,062,000
  
  
$
—  
  
  
($
2,648,000
) 
 
$
3,009,000
  

 For the year ended December 31, 2011:
  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
3,009,000
  
  
$
4,155,000
  
  
$
—  
  
  
($
2,735,000
) 
 
$
4,429,000
  
    


(1)
 Deductions
represent tenant receivables deemed uncollectible. 
  S - 1



Table of Contents
Schedule III 
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  December 31, 2011
 (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Properties Held for Long Term
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Hidden Cove
 
Arley
 
 
AL
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
212
  
 
$
610
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
13
  
 
$
212
  
 
$
623
  
 
$
835
  
 
$
(128
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Apache East
 
Apache Junction
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,236
  
 
 
4,181
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,236
  
 
 
4,181
  
 
 
6,417
  
 
 
(211
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Apollo Village
 
Phoenix
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
932
  
 
 
3,219
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,363
  
 
 
932
  
 
 
4,582
  
 
 
5,514
  
 
 
(2,363
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Araby
 
Yuma
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(3,020
) 
 
 
1,440
  
 
 
4,345
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
538
  
 
 
1,440
  
 
 
4,883
  
 
 
6,323
  
 
 
(1,267
) 
 
 
2003
  

 Cactus Gardens
 
Yuma
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(4,309
) 
 
 
1,992
  
 
 
5,984
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
1,992
  
 
 
6,285
  
 
 
8,277
  
 
 
(1,565
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Capri RV
 
Yuma
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(4,760
) 
 
 
1,595
  
 
 
4,774
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
1,595
  
 
 
4,980
  
 
 
6,575
  
 
 
(961
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Carefree Manor
 
Phoenix
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
706
  
 
 
3,040
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
828
  
 
 
706
  
 
 
3,868
  
 
 
4,574
  
 
 
(1,701
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Casa del Sol East II
 
Glendale
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(4,521
) 
 
 
2,103
  
 
 
6,283
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,497
  
 
 
2,103
  
 
 
8,780
  
 
 
10,883
  
 
 
(3,176
) 
 
 
1996
  

 Casa del Sol East III
 
Glendale
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,450
  
 
 
7,452
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
676
  
 
 
2,450
  
 
 
8,128
  
 
 
10,578
  
 
 
(3,630
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Casa del Sol West I
 
Peoria
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(9,644
) 
 
 
2,215
  
 
 
6,467
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,145
  
 
 
2,215
  
 
 
8,612
  
 
 
10,827
  
 
 
(3,377
) 
 
 
1996
  

 Casita Verde RV
 
Casa Grande
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(2,142
) 
 
 
719
  
 
 
2,179
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
719
  
 
 
2,247
  
 
 
2,966
  
 
 
(447
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Central Park
 
Phoenix
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(11,877
) 
 
 
1,612
  
 
 
3,784
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,540
  
 
 
1,612
  
 
 
5,324
  
 
 
6,936
  
 
 
(4,226
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Countryside RV
 
Apache Junction
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,056
  
 
 
6,241
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
942
  
 
 
2,056
  
 
 
7,183
  
 
 
9,239
  
 
 
(2,187
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Denali Park
 
Apache Junction
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,394
  
 
 
4,016
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,394
  
 
 
4,016
  
 
 
6,410
  
 
 
(201
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Desert Paradise
 
Yuma
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(1,300
) 
 
 
666
  
 
 
2,011
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
666
  
 
 
2,151
  
 
 
2,817
  
 
 
(583
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Desert Skies
 
Phoenix
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(4,734
) 
 
 
792
  
 
 
3,126
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
680
  
 
 
792
  
 
 
3,806
  
 
 
4,598
  
 
 
(1,717
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Desert Vista
 
Salome
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
268
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
367
  
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
2010
  

 Fairview Manor
 
Tucson
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,674
  
 
 
4,708
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,903
  
 
 
1,674
  
 
 
6,611
  
 
 
8,285
  
 
 
(2,997
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Fiesta Grande RV
 
Casa Grande
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(9,043
) 
 
 
2,869
  
 
 
8,653
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
389
  
 
 
2,869
  
 
 
9,042
  
 
 
11,911
  
 
 
(1,768
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Foothill
 
Yuma
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
1,402
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
1,583
  
 
 
2,042
  
 
 
(428
) 
 
 
2003
  

 Foothills West RV
 
Casa Grande
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(2,213
) 
 
 
747
  
 
 
2,261
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
747
  
 
 
2,501
  
 
 
3,248
  
 
 
(469
) 
 
 
2006
  
  S - 2



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Golden Sun RV
 
Apache Junction
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,678
  
 
 
5,049
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
1,678
  
 
 
5,246
  
 
 
6,924
  
 
 
(1,671
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Hacienda De Valencia
 
Mesa
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(14,124
) 
 
 
833
  
 
 
2,701
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,475
  
 
 
833
  
 
 
7,176
  
 
 
8,009
  
 
 
(4,393
) 
 
 
1984
  

 Mesa Verde
 
Cottonwood
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,387
  
 
 
4,148
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
364
  
 
 
1,387
  
 
 
4,512
  
 
 
5,899
  
 
 
(772
) 
 
 
2007
  

 Monte Vista
 
Mesa
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(22,866
) 
 
 
11,402
  
 
 
34,355
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,504
  
 
 
11,402
  
 
 
37,859
  
 
 
49,261
  
 
 
(9,436
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Palm Shadows
 
Glendale
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(5,994
) 
 
 
1,400
  
 
 
4,218
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,054
  
 
 
1,400
  
 
 
5,272
  
 
 
6,672
  
 
 
(3,103
) 
 
 
1993
  

 Paradise
 
Sun City
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(14,759
) 
 
 
6,414
  
 
 
19,263
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
1,876
  
 
 
6,425
  
 
 
21,139
  
 
 
27,564
  
 
 
(5,765
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sedona Shadows
 
Sedona
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(10,827
) 
 
 
1,096
  
 
 
3,431
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,299
  
 
 
1,096
  
 
 
4,730
  
 
 
5,826
  
 
 
(2,105
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Seyenna Vistas
 
Mesa
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,360
  
 
 
4,660
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,532
  
 
 
1,360
  
 
 
7,192
  
 
 
8,552
  
 
 
(3,717
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Suni Sands
 
Yuma
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(2,839
) 
 
 
1,249
  
 
 
3,759
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
318
  
 
 
1,249
  
 
 
4,077
  
 
 
5,326
  
 
 
(1,072
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sunrise Heights
 
Phoenix
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(5,179
) 
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
3,016
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,431
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
4,447
  
 
 
5,447
  
 
 
(2,222
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Sunshine Valley
 
Chandler
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(5,011
) 
 
 
9,139
  
 
 
12,912
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,139
  
 
 
12,912
  
 
 
22,051
  
 
 
(443
) 
 
 
2011
  

 The Highlands at Brentwood
 
Mesa
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(10,235
) 
 
 
1,997
  
 
 
6,024
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,942
  
 
 
1,997
  
 
 
7,966
  
 
 
9,963
  
 
 
(4,455
) 
 
 
1993
  

 The Meadows
 
Tempe
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,613
  
 
 
7,887
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,622
  
 
 
2,613
  
 
 
11,509
  
 
 
14,122
  
 
 
(5,985
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Valley Vista
 
Benson
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
115
  
 
 
429
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
115
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
558
  
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
2010
  

 Venture In
 
Show Low
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(6,378
) 
 
 
2,050
  
 
 
6,188
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
2,050
  
 
 
6,505
  
 
 
8,555
  
 
 
(1,303
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Verde Valley
 
Cottonwood
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,437
  
 
 
3,390
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
864
  
 
 
1,456
  
 
 
4,254
  
 
 
5,710
  
 
 
(975
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Viewpoint
 
Mesa
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(41,224
) 
 
 
24,890
  
 
 
56,340
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
5,003
  
 
 
24,905
  
 
 
61,343
  
 
 
86,248
  
 
 
(15,909
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Westpark
 
Wickenburg
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,495
  
 
 
10,517
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,495
  
 
 
10,517
  
 
 
15,012
  
 
 
(463
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Whispering Palms
 
Phoenix
 
 
AZ
  
 
 
(3,020
) 
 
 
670
  
 
 
2,141
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
308
  
 
 
670
  
 
 
2,449
  
 
 
3,119
  
 
 
(1,182
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Cultus Lake
 
Lindell Beach
 
 
BC
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
410
  
 
 
968
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
164
  
 
 
416
  
 
 
1,132
  
 
 
1,548
  
 
 
(262
) 
 
 
2004
  

 California Hawaiian
 
San Jose
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(31,995
) 
 
 
5,825
  
 
 
17,755
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,044
  
 
 
5,825
  
 
 
20,799
  
 
 
26,624
  
 
 
(9,756
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Colony Park
 
Ceres
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(5,353
) 
 
 
890
  
 
 
2,837
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
715
  
 
 
890
  
 
 
3,552
  
 
 
4,442
  
 
 
(1,746
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Concord Cascade
 
Pacheco
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(11,548
) 
 
 
985
  
 
 
3,016
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,895
  
 
 
985
  
 
 
4,911
  
 
 
5,896
  
 
 
(3,697
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Contempo Marin
 
San Rafael
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,787
  
 
 
16,379
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,173
  
 
 
4,787
  
 
 
19,552
  
 
 
24,339
  
 
 
(11,336
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Coralwood
 
Modesto
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(5,817
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,047
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,531
  
 
 
5,531
  
 
 
(2,718
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Date Palm Country Club
 
Cathedral City
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,115
  
 
 
14,064
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,570
  
 
 
4,115
  
 
 
18,634
  
 
 
22,749
  
 
 
(10,800
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Date Palm RV
 
Cathedral City
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
216
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
313
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
529
  
 
 
529
  
 
 
(321
) 
 
 
1994
  

 DeAnza Santa Cruz
 
Santa Cruz
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(13,115
) 
 
 
2,103
  
 
 
7,201
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,064
  
 
 
2,103
  
 
 
9,265
  
 
 
11,368
  
 
 
(5,091
) 
 
 
1994
  
  S - 3



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Four Seasons
 
Fresno
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
756
  
 
 
2,348
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
423
  
 
 
756
  
 
 
2,771
  
 
 
3,527
  
 
 
(1,342
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Idyllwild
 
Pine Cove
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
313
  
 
 
737
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
1,476
  
 
 
1,793
  
 
 
(290
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Laguna Lake
 
San Luis Obispo
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,845
  
 
 
6,520
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
514
  
 
 
2,845
  
 
 
7,034
  
 
 
9,879
  
 
 
(3,376
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Lake Minden
 
Nicolaus
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
961
  
 
 
2,267
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
671
  
 
 
974
  
 
 
2,938
  
 
 
3,912
  
 
 
(666
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lake of the Springs
 
Oregon House
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,062
  
 
 
2,504
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
805
  
 
 
1,076
  
 
 
3,309
  
 
 
4,385
  
 
 
(698
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lamplighter
 
Spring Valley
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(23,088
) 
 
 
633
  
 
 
2,201
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,234
  
 
 
633
  
 
 
3,435
  
 
 
4,068
  
 
 
(2,720
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Las Palmas
 
Rialto
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(3,404
) 
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
3,866
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
345
  
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
4,211
  
 
 
5,506
  
 
 
(1,102
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Los Ranchos
 
Apple Valley
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(13,817
) 
 
 
8,336
  
 
 
15,774
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,336
  
 
 
15,774
  
 
 
24,110
  
 
 
(418
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Meadowbrook
 
Santee
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,345
  
 
 
12,528
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,959
  
 
 
4,345
  
 
 
14,487
  
 
 
18,832
  
 
 
(6,532
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Monte del Lago
 
Castroville
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(21,018
) 
 
 
3,150
  
 
 
9,469
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,555
  
 
 
3,150
  
 
 
12,024
  
 
 
15,174
  
 
 
(5,541
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Morgan Hill
 
Morgan Hill
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,856
  
 
 
4,378
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
453
  
 
 
1,881
  
 
 
4,831
  
 
 
6,712
  
 
 
(1,120
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Nicholson Plaza
 
San Jose
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,512
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,778
  
 
 
4,778
  
 
 
(2,281
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Oakzanita Springs
 
Descanso
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
934
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
877
  
 
 
401
  
 
 
1,811
  
 
 
2,212
  
 
 
(382
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Pacific Dunes Ranch
 
Oceana
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(5,371
) 
 
 
1,940
  
 
 
5,632
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
1,940
  
 
 
5,836
  
 
 
7,776
  
 
 
(1,436
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Palm Springs
 
Palm Desert
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,811
  
 
 
4,271
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
546
  
 
 
1,835
  
 
 
4,817
  
 
 
6,652
  
 
 
(1,109
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Parque La Quinta
 
Rialto
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(4,565
) 
 
 
1,799
  
 
 
5,450
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
1,799
  
 
 
5,712
  
 
 
7,511
  
 
 
(1,527
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Pio Pico
 
Jamul
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,626
  
 
 
6,194
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
1,448
  
 
 
2,661
  
 
 
7,642
  
 
 
10,303
  
 
 
(1,664
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Ponderosa
 
Lotus
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
900
  
 
 
2,100
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
250
  
 
 
900
  
 
 
2,350
  
 
 
3,250
  
 
 
(458
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Quail Meadows
 
Riverbank
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(4,851
) 
 
 
1,155
  
 
 
3,469
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
458
  
 
 
1,155
  
 
 
3,927
  
 
 
5,082
  
 
 
(1,784
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Rancho Mesa
 
El Cajon
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(9,006
) 
 
 
2,130
  
 
 
6,389
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
729
  
 
 
2,130
  
 
 
7,118
  
 
 
9,248
  
 
 
(3,180
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Rancho Oso
 
Santa Barbara
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
860
  
 
 
2,029
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
698
  
 
 
872
  
 
 
2,727
  
 
 
3,599
  
 
 
(585
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Rancho Valley
 
El Cajon
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(7,164
) 
 
 
685
  
 
 
1,902
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,191
  
 
 
685
  
 
 
3,093
  
 
 
3,778
  
 
 
(2,384
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Royal Holiday
 
Hemet
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
778
  
 
 
2,643
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,305
  
 
 
778
  
 
 
4,948
  
 
 
5,726
  
 
 
(1,745
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Royal Oaks
 
Visalia
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
602
  
 
 
1,921
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
636
  
 
 
602
  
 
 
2,557
  
 
 
3,159
  
 
 
(1,186
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Russian River
 
Cloverdale
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
868
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
373
  
 
 
1,006
  
 
 
1,379
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
2004
  

 San Benito
 
Paicines
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,411
  
 
 
3,328
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
707
  
 
 
1,430
  
 
 
4,035
  
 
 
5,465
  
 
 
(926
) 
 
 
2004
  

 San Francisco RV
 
Pacifica
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,660
  
 
 
4,973
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
439
  
 
 
1,660
  
 
 
5,412
  
 
 
7,072
  
 
 
(1,186
) 
 
 
2005
  

 Santa Cruz Ranch RV
 
Scotts Valley
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,595
  
 
 
3,937
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
243
  
 
 
1,595
  
 
 
4,180
  
 
 
5,775
  
 
 
(607
) 
 
 
2007
  
  S - 4



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Santiago Estates
 
Sylmar
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(14,890
) 
 
 
3,562
  
 
 
10,767
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,238
  
 
 
3,562
  
 
 
12,005
  
 
 
15,567
  
 
 
(5,505
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Sea Oaks
 
Los Osos
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
871
  
 
 
2,703
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
472
  
 
 
871
  
 
 
3,175
  
 
 
4,046
  
 
 
(1,477
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Snowflower
 
Emigrant Gap
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
308
  
 
 
727
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
331
  
 
 
312
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
1,370
  
 
 
(225
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Soledad Canyon
 
Acton
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,933
  
 
 
6,917
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
1,532
  
 
 
2,972
  
 
 
8,449
  
 
 
11,421
  
 
 
(1,861
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sunshadow
 
San Jose
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,707
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,987
  
 
 
5,987
  
 
 
(2,875
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Tahoe Valley
 
Lake Tahoe
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,357
  
 
 
4,071
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
246
  
 
 
1,357
  
 
 
4,317
  
 
 
5,674
  
 
 
(1,142
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Turtle Beach
 
Manteca
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
268
  
 
 
633
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
272
  
 
 
749
  
 
 
1,021
  
 
 
(169
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Village of the Four Seasons
 
San Jose
 
 
CA
  
 
 
(13,708
) 
 
 
5,229
  
 
 
15,714
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
5,229
  
 
 
16,214
  
 
 
21,443
  
 
 
(4,119
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Westwinds (4 properties)
 
San Jose
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,616
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,883
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,499
  
 
 
24,499
  
 
 
(11,917
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Wilderness Lake
 
Menifee
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,157
  
 
 
5,088
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
726
  
 
 
2,186
  
 
 
5,814
  
 
 
8,000
  
 
 
(1,385
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Yosemite Lakes
 
Groveland
 
 
CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,045
  
 
 
4,823
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
1,390
  
 
 
2,072
  
 
 
6,213
  
 
 
8,285
  
 
 
(1,341
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Bear Creek
 
Denver
 
 
CO
  
 
 
(4,578
) 
 
 
1,100
  
 
 
3,359
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
450
  
 
 
1,100
  
 
 
3,809
  
 
 
4,909
  
 
 
(1,731
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Cimarron
 
Broomfield
 
 
CO
  
 
 
(15,083
) 
 
 
863
  
 
 
2,790
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
916
  
 
 
863
  
 
 
3,706
  
 
 
4,569
  
 
 
(3,126
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Golden Terrace
 
Golden
 
 
CO
  
 
 
(13,576
) 
 
 
826
  
 
 
2,415
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,672
  
 
 
826
  
 
 
4,087
  
 
 
4,913
  
 
 
(2,725
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Golden Terrace South
 
Golden
 
 
CO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
750
  
 
 
2,265
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
738
  
 
 
750
  
 
 
3,003
  
 
 
3,753
  
 
 
(1,449
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Golden Terrace West
 
Golden
 
 
CO
  
 
 
(16,098
) 
 
 
1,694
  
 
 
5,065
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,063
  
 
 
1,694
  
 
 
6,128
  
 
 
7,822
  
 
 
(4,842
) 
 
 
1986
  

 Hillcrest Village
 
Aurora
 
 
CO
  
 
 
(25,640
) 
 
 
1,912
  
 
 
5,202
  
 
 
289
  
 
 
3,010
  
 
 
2,201
  
 
 
8,212
  
 
 
10,413
  
 
 
(6,791
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Holiday Hills
 
Denver
 
 
CO
  
 
 
(35,449
) 
 
 
2,159
  
 
 
7,780
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,832
  
 
 
2,159
  
 
 
12,612
  
 
 
14,771
  
 
 
(10,295
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Holiday Village
 
Co. Springs
 
 
CO
  
 
 
(11,115
) 
 
 
567
  
 
 
1,759
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,241
  
 
 
567
  
 
 
3,000
  
 
 
3,567
  
 
 
(2,392
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Pueblo Grande
 
Pueblo
 
 
CO
  
 
 
(7,355
) 
 
 
241
  
 
 
1,069
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
1,777
  
 
 
2,018
  
 
 
(1,393
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Woodland Hills
 
Thornton
 
 
CO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,928
  
 
 
4,408
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,719
  
 
 
1,928
  
 
 
7,127
  
 
 
9,055
  
 
 
(4,186
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Stonegate Manor
 
North Windham
 
 
CT
  
 
 
(7,255
) 
 
 
6,011
  
 
 
12,336
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,011
  
 
 
12,336
  
 
 
18,347
  
 
 
(636
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Aspen Meadows
 
Rehoboth
 
 
DE
  
 
 
(5,273
) 
 
 
1,148
  
 
 
3,460
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
509
  
 
 
1,148
  
 
 
3,969
  
 
 
5,117
  
 
 
(1,857
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Camelot Meadows
 
Rehoboth
 
 
DE
  
 
 
(12,189
) 
 
 
527
  
 
 
2,058
  
 
 
1,251
  
 
 
4,331
  
 
 
1,778
  
 
 
6,389
  
 
 
8,167
  
 
 
(2,830
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Mariners Cove
 
Millsboro
 
 
DE
  
 
 
(15,435
) 
 
 
990
  
 
 
2,971
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,669
  
 
 
990
  
 
 
8,640
  
 
 
9,630
  
 
 
(4,975
) 
 
 
1987
  

 McNicol
 
Rehoboth
 
 
DE
  
 
 
(2,543
) 
 
 
562
  
 
 
1,710
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
209
  
 
 
562
  
 
 
1,919
  
 
 
2,481
  
 
 
(840
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Sweetbriar
 
Rehoboth
 
 
DE
  
 
 
(2,852
) 
 
 
498
  
 
 
1,527
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
498
  
 
 
1,970
  
 
 
2,468
  
 
 
(999
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Waterford
 
Bear
 
 
DE
  
 
 
(29,040
) 
 
 
5,250
  
 
 
16,202
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,497
  
 
 
5,250
  
 
 
17,699
  
 
 
22,949
  
 
 
(5,676
) 
 
 
1996
  
  S - 5



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Whispering Pines
 
Lewes
 
 
DE
  
 
 
(9,260
) 
 
 
1,536
  
 
 
4,609
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,514
  
 
 
1,536
  
 
 
6,123
  
 
 
7,659
  
 
 
(4,255
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Audubon
 
Orlando
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(6,969
) 
 
 
4,622
  
 
 
7,200
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,622
  
 
 
7,200
  
 
 
11,822
  
 
 
(270
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Barrington Hills
 
Hudson
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,145
  
 
 
3,437
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
492
  
 
 
1,145
  
 
 
3,929
  
 
 
5,074
  
 
 
(1,087
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Bay Indies
 
Venice
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(35,996
) 
 
 
10,483
  
 
 
31,559
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
5,500
  
 
 
10,493
  
 
 
37,059
  
 
 
47,552
  
 
 
(20,810
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Bay Lake Estates
 
Nokomis
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
990
  
 
 
3,390
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,654
  
 
 
990
  
 
 
5,044
  
 
 
6,034
  
 
 
(2,659
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Beacon Hill Colony
 
Lakeland
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(5,669
) 
 
 
3,775
  
 
 
6,405
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,775
  
 
 
6,405
  
 
 
10,180
  
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Beacon Terrace
 
Lakeland
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(7,427
) 
 
 
5,372
  
 
 
9,153
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,372
  
 
 
9,153
  
 
 
14,525
  
 
 
(394
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Breezy Hill RV
 
Pompano Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,424
  
 
 
16,555
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,437
  
 
 
5,424
  
 
 
17,992
  
 
 
23,416
  
 
 
(5,488
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Buccaneer
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(35,804
) 
 
 
4,207
  
 
 
14,410
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,723
  
 
 
4,207
  
 
 
17,133
  
 
 
21,340
  
 
 
(9,433
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Bulow Village RV
 
Flagler Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
880
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
(319
) 
 
 
2001
  

 Bulow Plantation
 
Flagler Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,637
  
 
 
949
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,197
  
 
 
3,637
  
 
 
7,146
  
 
 
10,783
  
 
 
(3,078
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Carefree Cove
 
Fort Lauderdale
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(4,274
) 
 
 
1,741
  
 
 
5,170
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
549
  
 
 
1,741
  
 
 
5,719
  
 
 
7,460
  
 
 
(1,431
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Carefree Village
 
Tampa
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,799
  
 
 
10,421
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,799
  
 
 
10,421
  
 
 
17,220
  
 
 
(587
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Carriage Cove
 
Daytona Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(11,799
) 
 
 
2,914
  
 
 
8,682
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,227
  
 
 
2,914
  
 
 
9,909
  
 
 
12,823
  
 
 
(4,651
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Cheron Village
 
Davie
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(5,715
) 
 
 
10,393
  
 
 
6,217
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,393
  
 
 
6,217
  
 
 
16,610
  
 
 
(507
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Clerbrook
 
Clermont
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(10,781
) 
 
 
3,883
  
 
 
11,700
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
932
  
 
 
3,883
  
 
 
12,632
  
 
 
16,515
  
 
 
(2,496
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Clover Leaf Farms
 
Brooksville
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(23,280
) 
 
 
13,684
  
 
 
24,106
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,684
  
 
 
24,106
  
 
 
37,790
  
 
 
(224
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Clover Leaf Forest
 
Brooksville
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,092
  
 
 
2,178
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,092
  
 
 
2,178
  
 
 
3,270
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Coachwood
 
Leesburg
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(3,792
) 
 
 
1,602
  
 
 
4,822
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
327
  
 
 
1,602
  
 
 
5,149
  
 
 
6,751
  
 
 
(1,341
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Colony Cove
 
Ellenton
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(58,452
) 
 
 
31,165
  
 
 
96,214
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
31,165
  
 
 
96,214
  
 
 
127,379
  
 
 
(3,852
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Coquina Crossing
 
Elkton
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,274
  
 
 
5,545
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16,933
  
 
 
5,274
  
 
 
22,478
  
 
 
27,752
  
 
 
(6,630
) 
 
 
1999
  

 Coral Cay
 
Margate
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(22,759
) 
 
 
5,890
  
 
 
20,211
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,497
  
 
 
5,890
  
 
 
27,708
  
 
 
33,598
  
 
 
(14,508
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Country Place
 
New Port Richey
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(15,197
) 
 
 
663
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
7,450
  
 
 
681
  
 
 
7,450
  
 
 
8,131
  
 
 
(4,627
) 
 
 
1986
  

 Countryside
 
Vero Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,711
  
 
 
11,133
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,681
  
 
 
3,711
  
 
 
17,814
  
 
 
21,525
  
 
 
(7,374
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Covington Estates
 
Saint Cloud
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,319
  
 
 
7,253
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,319
  
 
 
7,253
  
 
 
10,572
  
 
 
(362
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Crystal Isles
 
Crystal River
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(2,532
) 
 
 
926
  
 
 
2,787
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
722
  
 
 
936
  
 
 
3,509
  
 
 
4,445
  
 
 
(861
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Crystal Lakes-Zephyrhills
 
Zephyrhills
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,767
  
 
 
6,834
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,767
  
 
 
6,834
  
 
 
10,601
  
 
 
(360
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Down Yonder
 
Largo
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(13,030
) 
 
 
2,652
  
 
 
7,981
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
555
  
 
 
2,652
  
 
 
8,536
  
 
 
11,188
  
 
 
(2,629
) 
 
 
1998
  
  S - 6



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 East Bay Oaks
 
Largo
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(11,408
) 
 
 
1,240
  
 
 
3,322
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,083
  
 
 
1,240
  
 
 
4,405
  
 
 
5,645
  
 
 
(3,623
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Eldorado Village
 
Largo
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(7,852
) 
 
 
778
  
 
 
2,341
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
904
  
 
 
778
  
 
 
3,245
  
 
 
4,023
  
 
 
(2,604
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Emerald Lake
 
Punta Gorda
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,598
  
 
 
5,197
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—   
  
 
 
3,598
  
 
 
5,197
  
 
 
8,795
  
 
 
(228
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Featherock
 
Valrico
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(22,831
) 
 
 
11,369
  
 
 
22,770
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—   
  
 
 
11,369
  
 
 
22,770
  
 
 
34,139
  
 
 
(486
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Fort Myers Beach Resort
 
Fort Myers Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,188
  
 
 
3,548
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
1,188
  
 
 
3,754
  
 
 
4,942
  
 
 
(1,089
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Foxwood
 
Ocala
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,853
  
 
 
7,967
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,853
  
 
 
7,967
  
 
 
11,820
  
 
 
(490
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Glen Ellen
 
Clearwater
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
619
  
 
 
1,882
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
619
  
 
 
2,018
  
 
 
2,637
  
 
 
(615
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Grand Island
 
Grand Island
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,723
  
 
 
5,208
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
3,919
  
 
 
1,848
  
 
 
9,127
  
 
 
10,975
  
 
 
(3,024
) 
 
 
2001
  

 Gulf Air Resort
 
Fort Myers Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,609
  
 
 
4,746
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
171
  
 
 
1,609
  
 
 
4,917
  
 
 
6,526
  
 
 
(1,302
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Gulf View
 
Punta Gorda
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
717
  
 
 
2,158
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
901
  
 
 
717
  
 
 
3,059
  
 
 
3,776
  
 
 
(836
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Hacienda Village
 
New Port Richey
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,297
  
 
 
13,088
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,103
  
 
 
4,297
  
 
 
15,191
  
 
 
19,488
  
 
 
(4,402
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Harbor Lakes
 
Port Charlotte
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,384
  
 
 
10,154
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
439
  
 
 
3,384
  
 
 
10,593
  
 
 
13,977
  
 
 
(2,791
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Harbor View
 
New Port Richey
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,030
  
 
 
12,146
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
4,030
  
 
 
12,298
  
 
 
16,328
  
 
 
(3,854
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Haselton Village
 
Eustis
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(7,304
) 
 
 
3,800
  
 
 
8,955
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,800
  
 
 
8,955
  
 
 
12,755
  
 
 
(327
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Heritage Plantation
 
Vero Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(12,423
) 
 
 
2,403
  
 
 
7,259
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,965
  
 
 
2,403
  
 
 
9,224
  
 
 
11,627
  
 
 
(5,111
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Heron Cay
 
Vero Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(31,900
) 
 
 
14,368
  
 
 
23,792
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,368
  
 
 
23,792
  
 
 
38,160
  
 
 
(759
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Hidden Valley
 
Orlando
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(9,342
) 
 
 
11,398
  
 
 
12,861
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11,398
  
 
 
12,861
  
 
 
24,259
  
 
 
(670
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Highland Wood RV
 
Pompano Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,043
  
 
 
3,130
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
190
  
 
 
1,085
  
 
 
3,320
  
 
 
4,405
  
 
 
(1,039
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Hillcrest
 
Clearwater
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(7,366
) 
 
 
1,278
  
 
 
3,928
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,132
  
 
 
1,278
  
 
 
5,060
  
 
 
6,338
  
 
 
(2,424
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Holiday Ranch
 
Clearwater
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(4,628
) 
 
 
925
  
 
 
2,866
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
360
  
 
 
925
  
 
 
3,226
  
 
 
4,151
  
 
 
(1,515
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Holiday Village
 
Vero Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
350
  
 
 
1,374
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
350
  
 
 
1,584
  
 
 
1,934
  
 
 
(754
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Holiday Village
 
Ormond Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(9,857
) 
 
 
2,610
  
 
 
7,837
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
313
  
 
 
2,610
  
 
 
8,150
  
 
 
10,760
  
 
 
(2,519
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Indian Oaks
 
Rockledge
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,089
  
 
 
3,376
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
950
  
 
 
1,089
  
 
 
4,326
  
 
 
5,415
  
 
 
(2,056
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Island Vista
 
North Ft. Myers
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(14,759
) 
 
 
5,004
  
 
 
15,066
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
249
  
 
 
5,004
  
 
 
15,315
  
 
 
20,319
  
 
 
(2,929
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Kings & Queens
 
Lakeland
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,696
  
 
 
3,064
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,696
  
 
 
3,064
  
 
 
4,760
  
 
 
(163
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Lake Fairways
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(28,576
) 
 
 
6,075
  
 
 
18,134
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
2,181
  
 
 
6,110
  
 
 
20,315
  
 
 
26,425
  
 
 
(11,395
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Lake Haven
 
Dunedin
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(10,838
) 
 
 
1,135
  
 
 
4,047
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,032
  
 
 
1,135
  
 
 
7,079
  
 
 
8,214
  
 
 
(5,000
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Lake Magic
 
Clermont
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,595
  
 
 
4,793
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
263
  
 
 
1,595
  
 
 
5,056
  
 
 
6,651
  
 
 
(1,331
) 
 
 
2004
  
  S - 7



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Lake Village
 
Nokomis
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(11,256
) 
 
 
15,850
  
 
 
18,099
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,850
  
 
 
18,099
  
 
 
33,949
  
 
 
(453
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Lake Worth Village
 
Lake Worth
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(13,847
) 
 
 
14,959
  
 
 
24,501
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,959
  
 
 
24,501
  
 
 
39,460
  
 
 
(743
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Lakeland Harbor
 
Lakeland
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(17,467
) 
 
 
10,446
  
 
 
17,376
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,446
  
 
 
17,376
  
 
 
27,822
  
 
 
(684
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Lakeland Junction
 
Lakeland
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,018
  
 
 
4,752
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,018
  
 
 
4,752
  
 
 
7,770
  
 
 
(237
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Lakes at Countrywood
 
Plant City
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(10,039
) 
 
 
2,377
  
 
 
7,085
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,648
  
 
 
2,377
  
 
 
8,733
  
 
 
11,110
  
 
 
(3,088
) 
 
 
2001
  

 Lakeside Terrace
 
Fruitland Park
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,275
  
 
 
7,165
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,275
  
 
 
7,165
  
 
 
10,440
  
 
 
(338
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Lakewood Village
 
Melbourne
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(9,211
) 
 
 
1,862
  
 
 
5,627
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,516
  
 
 
1,862
  
 
 
7,143
  
 
 
9,005
  
 
 
(4,009
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Lighthouse Pointe
 
Port Orange
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(13,499
) 
 
 
2,446
  
 
 
7,483
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
1,343
  
 
 
2,469
  
 
 
8,826
  
 
 
11,295
  
 
 
(4,134
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Manatee
 
Bradenton
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,300
  
 
 
6,903
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
440
  
 
 
2,300
  
 
 
7,343
  
 
 
9,643
  
 
 
(1,932
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Maralago Cay
 
Lantana
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(19,847
) 
 
 
5,325
  
 
 
15,420
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,028
  
 
 
5,325
  
 
 
20,448
  
 
 
25,773
  
 
 
(9,197
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Meadows at Countrywood
 
Plant City
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(13,048
) 
 
 
4,514
  
 
 
13,175
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,213
  
 
 
4,514
  
 
 
17,388
  
 
 
21,902
  
 
 
(7,797
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Mid-Florida Lakes
 
Leesburg
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,997
  
 
 
20,635
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,091
  
 
 
5,997
  
 
 
29,726
  
 
 
35,723
  
 
 
(15,322
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Orange Lake
 
Clermont
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(5,367
) 
 
 
4,303
  
 
 
6,815
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,303
  
 
 
6,815
  
 
 
11,118
  
 
 
(373
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Oak Bend
 
Ocala
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(5,415
) 
 
 
850
  
 
 
2,572
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,122
  
 
 
850
  
 
 
3,694
  
 
 
4,544
  
 
 
(2,200
) 
 
 
1993
  

 Oaks at Countrywood
 
Plant City
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(13,166
) 
 
 
846
  
 
 
2,513
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,099
  
 
 
846
  
 
 
7,612
  
 
 
8,458
  
 
 
(2,405
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Orlando
 
Clermont
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,975
  
 
 
7,017
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
1,476
  
 
 
3,015
  
 
 
8,493
  
 
 
11,508
  
 
 
(1,922
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Palm Beach Colony
 
West Palm Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,930
  
 
 
10,113
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,938
  
 
 
10,113
  
 
 
16,051
  
 
 
(433
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Park City West
 
Fort Lauderdale
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(14,778
) 
 
 
4,184
  
 
 
12,561
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
673
  
 
 
4,184
  
 
 
13,234
  
 
 
17,418
  
 
 
(3,447
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Parkwood Communities
 
Wildwood
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(9,681
) 
 
 
6,990
  
 
 
15,115
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,990
  
 
 
15,115
  
 
 
22,105
  
 
 
(743
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Pasco
 
Lutz
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
4,484
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
4,911
  
 
 
6,405
  
 
 
(1,266
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Peace River
 
Wauchula
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
900
  
 
 
2,100
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
900
  
 
 
2,392
  
 
 
3,292
  
 
 
(426
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Pickwick
 
Port Orange
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,803
  
 
 
8,870
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,146
  
 
 
2,803
  
 
 
10,016
  
 
 
12,819
  
 
 
(4,579
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Pine Lakes
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(36,801
) 
 
 
6,306
  
 
 
14,579
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
7,056
  
 
 
6,327
  
 
 
21,635
  
 
 
27,962
  
 
 
(11,806
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Pioneer Village
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(9,273
) 
 
 
4,116
  
 
 
12,353
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,480
  
 
 
4,116
  
 
 
13,833
  
 
 
17,949
  
 
 
(3,655
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Ramblers Rest
 
Venice
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(14,896
) 
 
 
4,646
  
 
 
14,201
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,443
  
 
 
4,646
  
 
 
16,644
  
 
 
21,290
  
 
 
(3,084
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Ridgewood Estates
 
Ellenton
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(11,040
) 
 
 
6,769
  
 
 
8,791
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,769
  
 
 
8,791
  
 
 
15,560
  
 
 
(261
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Royal Coachman
 
Nokomis
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(11,898
) 
 
 
5,321
  
 
 
15,978
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
992
  
 
 
5,321
  
 
 
16,970
  
 
 
22,291
  
 
 
(4,504
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Shady Lane Oaks
 
Clearwater
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(5,814
) 
 
 
4,984
  
 
 
8,482
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,984
  
 
 
8,482
  
 
 
13,466
  
 
 
(480
) 
 
 
2011
  
  S - 8



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Shady Lane Village
 
Clearwater
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,102
  
 
 
5,480
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,102
  
 
 
5,480
  
 
 
8,582
  
 
 
(304
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Shangri La
 
Largo
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(4,023
) 
 
 
1,722
  
 
 
5,200
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
1,722
  
 
 
5,318
  
 
 
7,040
  
 
 
(1,393
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sherwood Forest
 
Kissimmee
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(30,002
) 
 
 
4,852
  
 
 
14,596
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,595
  
 
 
4,852
  
 
 
20,191
  
 
 
25,043
  
 
 
(8,808
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Sherwood Forest RV
 
Kissimmee
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,870
  
 
 
3,621
  
 
 
568
  
 
 
2,405
  
 
 
3,438
  
 
 
6,026
  
 
 
9,464
  
 
 
(2,682
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Silk Oak
 
Clearwater
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,649
  
 
 
5,028
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
1,649
  
 
 
5,137
  
 
 
6,786
  
 
 
(1,581
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Silver Dollar
 
Odessa
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(8,181
) 
 
 
4,107
  
 
 
12,431
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
1,304
  
 
 
4,347
  
 
 
13,735
  
 
 
18,082
  
 
 
(3,621
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sixth Ave.
 
Zephryhills
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(2,023
) 
 
 
837
  
 
 
2,518
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
837
  
 
 
2,547
  
 
 
3,384
  
 
 
(692
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Southern Palms
 
Eustis
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,169
  
 
 
5,884
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,074
  
 
 
2,169
  
 
 
8,958
  
 
 
11,127
  
 
 
(3,905
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Southernaire
 
Mt. Dora
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(1,872
) 
 
 
796
  
 
 
2,395
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
796
  
 
 
2,502
  
 
 
3,298
  
 
 
(656
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Starlight Ranch
 
Orlando
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,543
  
 
 
20,388
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,543
  
 
 
20,388
  
 
 
33,931
  
 
 
(1,221
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Sunshine Holiday MH
 
Ormond Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,001
  
 
 
6,004
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
606
  
 
 
2,001
  
 
 
6,610
  
 
 
8,611
  
 
 
(1,740
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sunshine Holiday RV
 
Fort Lauderdale
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(7,608
) 
 
 
3,099
  
 
 
9,286
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
530
  
 
 
3,099
  
 
 
9,816
  
 
 
12,915
  
 
 
(2,468
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sunshine Key
 
Big Pine Key
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(14,763
) 
 
 
5,273
  
 
 
15,822
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,977
  
 
 
5,273
  
 
 
17,799
  
 
 
23,072
  
 
 
(4,667
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sunshine Travel
 
Vero Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,603
  
 
 
4,813
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
213
  
 
 
1,603
  
 
 
5,026
  
 
 
6,629
  
 
 
(1,316
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Tarpon Glen
 
Tarpon Springs
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,678
  
 
 
4,016
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,678
  
 
 
4,016
  
 
 
6,694
  
 
 
(256
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Terra Ceia
 
Palmetto
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(2,262
) 
 
 
965
  
 
 
2,905
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
965
  
 
 
3,040
  
 
 
4,005
  
 
 
(801
) 
 
 
2004
  

 The Heritage
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(12,078
) 
 
 
1,438
  
 
 
4,371
  
 
 
346
  
 
 
4,117
  
 
 
1,784
  
 
 
8,488
  
 
 
10,272
  
 
 
(4,532
) 
 
 
1993
  

 The Meadows
 
Palm Beach Gardens
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(11,589
) 
 
 
3,229
  
 
 
9,870
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,194
  
 
 
3,229
  
 
 
14,064
  
 
 
17,293
  
 
 
(4,985
) 
 
 
1999
  

 Three Flags RV Resort
 
Wildwood
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
684
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
809
  
 
 
1,037
  
 
 
(161
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Toby’s
 
Arcadia
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(3,876
) 
 
 
1,093
  
 
 
3,280
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
115
  
 
 
1,093
  
 
 
3,395
  
 
 
4,488
  
 
 
(946
) 
 
 
2003
  

 Topics
 
Spring Hill
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(2,000
) 
 
 
844
  
 
 
2,568
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
346
  
 
 
844
  
 
 
2,914
  
 
 
3,758
  
 
 
(794
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Tropical Palms
 
Kissimmee
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,677
  
 
 
17,116
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,976
  
 
 
5,677
  
 
 
23,092
  
 
 
28,769
  
 
 
(7,143
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Tropical Palms
 
Punta Gorda
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(7,139
) 
 
 
2,365
  
 
 
7,286
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
548
  
 
 
2,365
  
 
 
7,834
  
 
 
10,199
  
 
 
(1,483
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Vacation Village
 
Largo
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,315
  
 
 
3,946
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
1,315
  
 
 
4,212
  
 
 
5,527
  
 
 
(1,076
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Vero Palm
 
Vero Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(12,906
) 
 
 
6,697
  
 
 
9,025
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,697
  
 
 
9,025
  
 
 
15,722
  
 
 
(316
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Villas at Spanish Oaks
 
Ocala
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(12,375
) 
 
 
2,250
  
 
 
6,922
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,354
  
 
 
2,250
  
 
 
8,276
  
 
 
10,526
  
 
 
(4,834
) 
 
 
1993
  

 Village Green
 
Vero Beach
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(26,069
) 
 
 
15,901
  
 
 
25,175
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,901
  
 
 
25,175
  
 
 
41,076
  
 
 
(1,206
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Whispering Pines—Largo
 
Largo
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(13,167
) 
 
 
8,218
  
 
 
14,054
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,218
  
 
 
14,054
  
 
 
22,272
  
 
 
(385
) 
 
 
2011
  
  S - 9



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Windmill Manor
 
Bradenton
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,153
  
 
 
6,125
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,517
  
 
 
2,153
  
 
 
7,642
  
 
 
9,795
  
 
 
(3,403
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Windmill Village
 
N. Ft. Myers
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(16,168
) 
 
 
1,417
  
 
 
5,440
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,046
  
 
 
1,417
  
 
 
7,486
  
 
 
8,903
  
 
 
(6,265
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Winds of St. Armands North
 
Sarasota
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(19,041
) 
 
 
1,523
  
 
 
5,063
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,997
  
 
 
1,523
  
 
 
8,060
  
 
 
9,583
  
 
 
(6,061
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Winds of St. Armands South
 
Sarasota
 
 
FL
  
 
 
(12,252
) 
 
 
1,106
  
 
 
3,162
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,154
  
 
 
1,106
  
 
 
4,316
  
 
 
5,422
  
 
 
(3,528
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Winter Garden
 
Winter Garden
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,321
  
 
 
6,962
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
2,321
  
 
 
7,159
  
 
 
9,480
  
 
 
(1,107
) 
 
 
2007
  

 Pine Island Resort
 
St. James City
 
 
FL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,678
  
 
 
5,044
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
1,678
  
 
 
5,350
  
 
 
7,028
  
 
 
(773
) 
 
 
2007
  

 Coach Royale
 
Boise
 
 
ID
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
465
  
 
 
1,685
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
465
  
 
 
1,685
  
 
 
2,150
  
 
 
(105
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Maple Grove
 
Boise
 
 
ID
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,358
  
 
 
5,151
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,358
  
 
 
5,151
  
 
 
6,509
  
 
 
(307
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Shenandoah Estates
 
Boise
 
 
ID
  
 
 
(6,007
) 
 
 
1,287
  
 
 
7,603
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,287
  
 
 
7,603
  
 
 
8,890
  
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
2011
  

 West Meadow Estates
 
Boise
 
 
ID
  
 
 
(6,340
) 
 
 
1,371
  
 
 
6,770
  
 



 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,371
  
 
 
6,770
  
 
 
8,141
  
 
 
(167
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Golf Vistas Estates
 
Monee
 
 
IL
  
 
 
(11,996
) 
 
 
2,843
  
 
 
4,719
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,677
  
 
 
2,843
  
 
 
11,396
  
 
 
14,239
  
 
 
(4,860
) 
 
 
1997
  

 O’Connell’s
 
Amboy
 
 
IL
  
 
 
(4,421
) 
 
 
1,648
  
 
 
4,974
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
646
  
 
 
1,648
  
 
 
5,620
  
 
 
7,268
  
 
 
(1,588
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Pine Country
 
Belvidere
 
 
IL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
166
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
296
  
 
 
349
  
 
 
(52
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Willow Lake Estates
 
Elgin
 
 
IL
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,138
  
 
 
21,033
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,930
  
 
 
6,138
  
 
 
26,963
  
 
 
33,101
  
 
 
(14,287
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Indian Lakes
 
Batesville
 
 
IN
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
450
  
 
 
1,061
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
636
  
 
 
456
  
 
 
1,697
  
 
 
2,153
  
 
 
(345
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Hoosier Estates
 
Lebanon
 
 
IN
  
 
 
(7,202
) 
 
 
2,293
  
 
 
7,197
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,293
  
 
 
7,197
  
 
 
9,490
  
 
 
(57
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Horseshoe Lake
 
Clinton
 
 
IN
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
365
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
361
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
726
  
 
 
883
  
 
 
(129
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lakeside
 
New Carlisle
 
 
IN
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
426
  
 
 
1,281
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
426
  
 
 
1,352
  
 
 
1,778
  
 
 
(368
) 
 
 
2004
  

 North Glen Village
 
Westfield
 
 
IN
  
 
 
(7,432
) 
 
 
2,308
  
 
 
6,333
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,308
  
 
 
6,333
  
 
 
8,641
  
 
 
(61
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Oak Tree Village
 
Portage
 
 
IN
  
 
 
(9,276
) 
 
 
569
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,889
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
3,889
  
 
 
4,458
  
 
 
(2,703
) 
 
 
1987
  

 Twin Mills RV
 
Howe
 
 
IN
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,399
  
 
 
4,186
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
1,399
  
 
 
4,379
  
 
 
5,778
  
 
 
(755
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Diamond Caverns Resort & Golf Club
 
Park City
 
 
KY
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
530
  
 
 
1,512
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
530
  
 
 
1,502
  
 
 
2,032
  
 
 
(307
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Gateway to Cape Cod
 
Rochester
 
 
MA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
288
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
436
  
 
 
527
  
 
 
(78
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Hillcrest
 
Rockland
 
 
MA
  
 
 
(1,895
) 
 
 
2,034
  
 
 
3,182
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,034
  
 
 
3,182
  
 
 
5,216
  
 
 
(146
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Old Chatham RV
 
South Dennis
 
 
MA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,760
  
 
 
5,293
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
1,760
  
 
 
5,365
  
 
 
7,125
  
 
 
(1,140
) 
 
 
2005
  

 Sturbridge
 
Sturbridge
 
 
MA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
347
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
264
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
611
  
 
 
721
  
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
2006
  

 The Glen
 
Norwell
 
 
MA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
1,680
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
1,680
  
 
 
2,620
  
 
 
(78
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Fernwood
 
Capitol Heights
 
 
MD
  
 
 
(9,634
) 
 
 
6,556
  
 
 
11,674
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,556
  
 
 
11,674
  
 
 
18,230
  
 
 
(313
) 
 
 
2011
  
  S - 10



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Williams Estates and Peppermint Woods
 
Middle River
 
 
MD
  
 
 
(43,486
) 
 
 
22,774
  
 
 
42,575
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,774
  
 
 
42,575
  
 
 
65,349
  
 
 
(1,702
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Moody Beach
 
Moody
 
 
ME
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
93
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
126
  
 
 
93
  
 
 
418
  
 
 
511
  
 
 
(75
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Pinehirst RV Park
 
Old Orchard Beach
 
 
ME
  
 
 
(5,327
) 
 
 
1,942
  
 
 
5,827
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
544
  
 
 
1,942
  
 
 
6,371
  
 
 
8,313
  
 
 
(1,324
) 
 
 
2005
  

 Mt. Desert Narrows
 
Bar Harbor
 
 
ME
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,037
  
 
 
3,127
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
1,037
  
 
 
3,178
  
 
 
4,215
  
 
 
(438
) 
 
 
2007
  

 Narrows Too
 
Trenton
 
 
ME
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,463
  
 
 
4,408
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
1,463
  
 
 
4,441
  
 
 
5,904
  
 
 
(608
) 
 
 
2007
  

 Patton Pond
 
Ellsworth
 
 
ME
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
267
  
 
 
802
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
267
  
 
 
878
  
 
 
1,145
  
 
 
(125
) 
 
 
2007
  

 Avon on the Lake
 
Rochester Hills
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,435
  
 
 
9,748
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,435
  
 
 
9,748
  
 
 
14,183
  
 
 
(889
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Bear Cave Resort
 
Buchanan
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
176
  
 
 
516
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
176
  
 
 
543
  
 
 
719
  
 
 
(143
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Fairchild Lake
 
Chesterfield
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,430
  
 
 
7,226
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,430
  
 
 
7,226
  
 
 
8,656
  
 
 
(487
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Cranberry Lake
 
White Lake
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,654
  
 
 
8,174
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,654
  
 
 
8,174
  
 
 
9,828
  
 
 
(536
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Ferrand Estates
 
Wyoming
 
 
MI
  
 
 
(8,432
) 
 
 
2,172
  
 
 
6,574
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,172
  
 
 
6,574
  
 
 
8,746
  
 
 
(362
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Grand Blanc Crossing
 
Grand Blanc
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,899
  
 
 
2,787
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,899
  
 
 
2,787
  
 
 
4,686
  
 
 
(342
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Holly Hills
 
Holly
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
1,703
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
1,703
  
 
 
2,426
  
 
 
(200
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Lake in the Hills
 
Auburn Hills
 
 
MI
  
 
 
(4,224
) 
 
 
1,792
  
 
 
5,599
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,792
  
 
 
5,599
  
 
 
7,391
  
 
 
(379
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Westbridge Manor
 
Macomb
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,472
  
 
 
13,927
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,472
  
 
 
13,927
  
 
 
22,399
  
 
 
(1,325
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Oakland Glens
 
Novi
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,653
  
 
 
6,881
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,653
  
 
 
6,881
  
 
 
10,534
  
 
 
(681
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Old Orchard
 
Davison
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
812
  
 
 
2,814
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
812
  
 
 
2,814
  
 
 
3,626
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Royal Estates
 
Kalamazoo
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
921
  
 
 
3,244
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
921
  
 
 
3,244
  
 
 
4,165
  
 
 
(229
) 
 
 
2011
  

 St Clair
 
St Clair
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
453
  
 
 
1,068
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
243
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
1,311
  
 
 
1,770
  
 
 
(315
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Swan Creek
 
Ypsilanti
 
 
MI
  
 
 
(5,516
) 
 
 
1,844
  
 
 
7,180
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,844
  
 
 
7,180
  
 
 
9,024
  
 
 
(481
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Westbrook
 
Macomb
 
 
MI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,441
  
 
 
15,057
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,441
  
 
 
15,057
  
 
 
17,498
  
 
 
(827
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Cedar Knolls
 
Apple Valley
 
 
MN
  
 
 
(17,034
) 
 
 
10,021
  
 
 
14,357
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,021
  
 
 
14,357
  
 
 
24,378
  
 
 
(757
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Cimarron Park
 
Lake Elmo
 
 
MN
  
 
 
(22,768
) 
 
 
11,097
  
 
 
23,132
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11,097
  
 
 
23,132
  
 
 
34,229
  
 
 
(940
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Rockford Riverview Estates
 
Rockford
 
 
MN
  
 
 
(8,886
) 
 
 
2,959
  
 
 
8,882
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,959
  
 
 
8,882
  
 
 
11,841
  
 
 
(430
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Rosemount Woods
 
Rosemount
 
 
MN
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,314
  
 
 
8,932
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,314
  
 
 
8,932
  
 
 
13,246
  
 
 
(426
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Forest Lake
 
Advance
 
 
NC
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
986
  
 
 
2,325
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
999
  
 
 
2,806
  
 
 
3,805
  
 
 
(651
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Goose Creek
 
Newport
 
 
NC
  
 
 
(11,177
) 
 
 
4,612
  
 
 
13,848
  
 
 
750
  
 
 
1,448
  
 
 
5,362
  
 
 
15,296
  
 
 
20,658
  
 
 
(3,973
) 
 
 
2004
  
  S - 11



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Green Mountain Park
 
Lenoir
 
 
NC
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,037
  
 
 
3,075
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
182
  
 
 
1,037
  
 
 
3,257
  
 
 
4,294
  
 
 
(605
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Lake Gaston
 
Littleton
 
 
NC
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
409
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
530
  
 
 
660
  
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Lake Myers RV
 
Mocksville
 
 
NC
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,504
  
 
 
4,587
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
1,504
  
 
 
4,710
  
 
 
6,214
  
 
 
(852
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Scenic
 
Asheville
 
 
NC
  
 
 
(3,596
) 
 
 
1,183
  
 
 
3,511
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
1,183
  
 
 
3,566
  
 
 
4,749
  
 
 
(681
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Twin Lakes
 
Chocowinity
 
 
NC
  
 
 
(3,378
) 
 
 
1,709
  
 
 
3,361
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
423
  
 
 
1,709
  
 
 
3,784
  
 
 
5,493
  
 
 
(966
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Waterway RV
 
Cedar Point
 
 
NC
  
 
 
(5,571
) 
 
 
2,392
  
 
 
7,185
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
139
  
 
 
2,392
  
 
 
7,324
  
 
 
9,716
  
 
 
(1,934
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Buena Vista
 
Fargo
 
 
ND
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,563
  
 
 
14,949
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,563
  
 
 
14,949
  
 
 
19,512
  
 
 
(566
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Meadow Park
 
Fargo
 
 
ND
  
 
 
(2,363
) 
 
 
943
  
 
 
2,907
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
943
  
 
 
2,907
  
 
 
3,850
  
 
 
(80
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Sandy Beach RV
 
Contoocook
 
 
NH
  
 
 
(4,859
) 
 
 
1,755
  
 
 
5,265
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
1,755
  
 
 
5,356
  
 
 
7,111
  
 
 
(1,157
) 
 
 
2005
  

 Tuxbury Resort
 
South Hampton
 
 
NH
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,557
  
 
 
3,910
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
3,557
  
 
 
4,221
  
 
 
7,778
  
 
 
(585
) 
 
 
2007
  

 Chestnut Lake
 
Port Republic
 
 
NJ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
337
  
 
 
796
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
342
  
 
 
976
  
 
 
1,318
  
 
 
(216
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lake & Shore
 
Ocean View
 
 
NJ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
378
  
 
 
1,192
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
672
  
 
 
378
  
 
 
1,864
  
 
 
2,242
  
 
 
(328
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Pine Ridge at Crestwood
 
Whiting
 
 
NJ
  
 
 
(39,687
) 
 
 
17,367
  
 
 
33,127
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,367
  
 
 
33,127
  
 
 
50,494
  
 
 
(1,162
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Sea Pines
 
Swainton
 
 
NJ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
625
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
202
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
827
  
 
 
1,025
  
 
 
(145
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Bonanza
 
Las Vegas
 
 
NV
  
 
 
(8,663
) 
 
 
908
  
 
 
2,643
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,683
  
 
 
908
  
 
 
4,326
  
 
 
5,234
  
 
 
(3,254
) 
 
 
1983
  

 Boulder Cascade
 
Las Vegas
 
 
NV
  
 
 
(8,165
) 
 
 
2,995
  
 
 
9,020
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,536
  
 
 
2,995
  
 
 
11,556
  
 
 
14,551
  
 
 
(5,043
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Cabana
 
Las Vegas
 
 
NV
  
 
 
(9,063
) 
 
 
2,648
  
 
 
7,989
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
678
  
 
 
2,648
  
 
 
8,667
  
 
 
11,315
  
 
 
(4,956
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Flamingo West
 
Las Vegas
 
 
NV
  
 
 
(13,840
) 
 
 
1,730
  
 
 
5,266
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,563
  
 
 
1,730
  
 
 
6,829
  
 
 
8,559
  
 
 
(3,778
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Las Vegas
 
Las Vegas
 
 
NV
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,049
  
 
 
2,473
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
305
  
 
 
1,063
  
 
 
2,778
  
 
 
3,841
  
 
 
(632
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Villa Borega
 
Las Vegas
 
 
NV
  
 
 
(9,752
) 
 
 
2,896
  
 
 
8,774
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,057
  
 
 
2,896
  
 
 
9,831
  
 
 
12,727
  
 
 
(4,641
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Alpine Lake
 
Corinth
 
 
NY
  
 
 
(13,318
) 
 
 
4,783
  
 
 
14,125
  
 
 
153
  
 
 
585
  
 
 
4,936
  
 
 
14,710
  
 
 
19,646
  
 
 
(3,140
) 
 
 
2005
  

 Brennan Beach
 
Pulaski
 
 
NY
  
 
 
(19,686
) 
 
 
7,325
  
 
 
21,141
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,125
  
 
 
7,325
  
 
 
26,266
  
 
 
33,591
  
 
 
(4,992
) 
 
 
2005
  

 Greenwood Village
 
Manorville
 
 
NY
  
 
 
(24,746
) 
 
 
3,667
  
 
 
9,414
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
4,756
  
 
 
4,151
  
 
 
14,170
  
 
 
18,321
  
 
 
(5,919
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Lake George Escape
 
Lake George
 
 
NY
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,562
  
 
 
10,708
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
538
  
 
 
3,562
  
 
 
11,246
  
 
 
14,808
  
 
 
(2,537
) 
 
 
2005
  

 Lake George Schroon Valley
 
Warrensburg
 
 
NY
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
1,626
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
1,644
  
 
 
2,184
  
 
 
(215
) 
 
 
2008
  

 Mountain View—NV
 
Henderson
 
 
NV
  
 
 
(22,325
) 
 
 
16,665
  
 
 
25,915
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16,665
  
 
 
25,915
  
 
 
42,580
  
 
 
(944
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Rondout Valley Resort
 
Accord
 
 
NY
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,115
  
 
 
3,240
  
 
  
—   
    
 
 
181
  
 
 
1,115
  
 
 
3,421
  
 
 
4,536
  
 
 
(632
) 
 
 
2006
  

 The Woodlands
 
Lockport
 
 
NY
  
 
 
(24,088
) 
 
 
12,183
  
 
 
39,687
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,183
  
 
 
39,687
  
 
 
51,870
  
 
 
(1,004
) 
 
 
2011
  
  S - 12



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Kenisee Lake
 
Jefferson
 
 
OH
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
295
  
 
 
696
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
814
  
 
 
1,113
  
 
 
(183
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Wilmington
 
Wilmington
 
 
OH
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
235
  
 
 
555
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
93
  
 
 
238
  
 
 
648
  
 
 
886
  
 
 
(148
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Bend
 
Bend
 
 
OR
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
733
  
 
 
1,729
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
399
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
2,128
  
 
 
2,871
  
 
 
(468
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Falcon Wood Village
 
Eugene
 
 
OR
  
 
 
(4,878
) 
 
 
1,112
  
 
 
3,426
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
514
  
 
 
1,112
  
 
 
3,940
  
 
 
5,052
  
 
 
(1,846
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Mt. Hood
 
Welches
 
 
OR
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,817
  
 
 
5,733
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
176
  
 
 
1,817
  
 
 
5,909
  
 
 
7,726
  
 
 
(1,996
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Pacific City
 
Cloverdale
 
 
OR
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,076
  
 
 
2,539
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
1,181
  
 
 
1,091
  
 
 
3,720
  
 
 
4,811
  
 
 
(772
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Quail Hollow
 
Fairview
 
 
OR
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,249
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
450
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,699
  
 
 
3,699
  
 
 
(1,758
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Seaside
 
Seaside
 
 
OR
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
891
  
 
 
2,101
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
504
  
 
 
903
  
 
 
2,605
  
 
 
3,508
  
 
 
(582
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Shadowbrook
 
Clackamas
 
 
OR
  
 
 
(5,929
) 
 
 
1,197
  
 
 
3,693
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
425
  
 
 
1,197
  
 
 
4,118
  
 
 
5,315
  
 
 
(1,997
) 
 
 
1997
  

 South Jetty
 
Florence
 
 
OR
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
678
  
 
 
1,598
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
289
  
 
 
687
  
 
 
1,887
  
 
 
2,574
  
 
 
(400
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Whalers Rest
 
South Beach
 
 
OR
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
754
  
 
 
1,777
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
480
  
 
 
764
  
 
 
2,257
  
 
 
3,021
  
 
 
(494
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Appalachian
 
Shartlesville
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,666
  
 
 
5,044
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
1,666
  
 
 
5,446
  
 
 
7,112
  
 
 
(910
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Circle M
 
Lancaster
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
1,041
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
1,296
  
 
 
1,626
  
 
 
(224
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Dutch County
 
Manheim
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
354
  
 
 
442
  
 
 
(64
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Gettysburg Farm
 
Dover
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
350
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
421
  
 
 
532
  
 
 
(72
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Green Acres
 
Breinigsville
 
 
PA
  
 
 
(28,835
) 
 
 
2,680
  
 
 
7,479
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,092
  
 
 
2,680
  
 
 
11,571
  
 
 
14,251
  
 
 
(7,789
) 
 
 
1988
  

 Greenbriar Village
 
Bath
 
 
PA
  
 
 
(14,784
) 
 
 
8,359
  
 
 
16,941
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,359
  
 
 
16,941
  
 
 
25,300
  
 
 
(395
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Hershey
 
Lebanon
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,284
  
 
 
3,028
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
728
  
 
 
1,301
  
 
 
3,756
  
 
 
5,057
  
 
 
(848
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lil Wolf
 
Orefield
 
 
PA
  
 
 
(8,784
) 
 
 
5,627
  
 
 
13,593
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,627
  
 
 
13,593
  
 
 
19,220
  
 
 
(110
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Mountain View—PA
 
Walnutport
 
 
PA
  
 
 
(7,283
) 
 
 
3,207
  
 
 
7,182
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,207
  
 
 
7,182
  
 
 
10,389
  
 
 
(280
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Robin Hill
 
Lenhartsville
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,263
  
 
 
3,786
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
1,263
  
 
 
3,843
  
 
 
5,106
  
 
 
(380
) 
 
 
2009
  

 Scotrun
 
Scotrun
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
153
  
 
 
483
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
153
  
 
 
640
  
 
 
793
  
 
 
(104
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Spring Gulch
 
New Holland
 
 
PA
  
 
 
(4,231
) 
 
 
1,593
  
 
 
4,795
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
1,593
  
 
 
4,995
  
 
 
6,588
  
 
 
(1,346
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sun Valley
 
Bowmansville
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
866
  
 
 
2,601
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
866
  
 
 
2,718
  
 
 
3,584
  
 
 
(264
) 
 
 
2009
  

 Timothy Lake North
 
East Stroudsburg
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
296
  
 
 
933
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
296
  
 
 
1,158
  
 
 
1,454
  
 
 
(249
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Timothy Lake South
 
East Stroudsburg
 
 
PA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
649
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
672
  
 
 
878
  
 
 
(117
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Carolina Landing
 
Fair Play
 
 
SC
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
457
  
 
 
1,078
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
184
  
 
 
463
  
 
 
1,262
  
 
 
1,725
  
 
 
(284
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Inlet Oaks
 
Murrells Inlet
 
 
SC
  
 
 
(4,641
) 
 
 
1,546
  
 
 
4,642
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
154
  
 
 
1,546
  
 
 
4,796
  
 
 
6,342
  
 
 
(907
) 
 
 
2006
  
  S - 13



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost toCompany
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 The Oaks at Point South
 
Yemassee
 
 
SC
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
267
  
 
 
810
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
267
  
 
 
847
  
 
 
1,114
  
 
 
(170
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Natchez Trace
 
Hohenwald
 
 
TN
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
533
  
 
 
1,257
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
195
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
1,452
  
 
 
1,992
  
 
 
(332
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Cherokee Landing
 
Middleton
 
 
TN
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
279
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
304
  
 
 
424
  
 
 
(72
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Bay Landing
 
Bridgeport
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
438
  
 
 
1,033
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
236
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
1,269
  
 
 
1,713
  
 
 
(264
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Colorado River
 
Columbus
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
1,099
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
472
  
 
 
1,184
  
 
 
1,656
  
 
 
(285
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Country Sunshine
 
Weslaco
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
627
  
 
 
1,881
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
797
  
 
 
627
  
 
 
2,678
  
 
 
3,305
  
 
 
(731
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Fun n Sun RV
 
San Benito
 
 
TX
  
 
 
(6,589
) 
 
 
2,533
  
 
 
5,560
  
 
 
412
  
 
 
5,601
  
 
 
2,945
  
 
 
11,161
  
 
 
14,106
  
 
 
(5,121
) 
 
 
1998
  

 Lake Conroe
 
Willis
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,363
  
 
 
3,214
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
1,487
  
 
 
1,381
  
 
 
4,701
  
 
 
6,082
  
 
 
(1,000
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lake Tawakoni
 
Point
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
691
  
 
 
1,629
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
700
  
 
 
1,844
  
 
 
2,544
  
 
 
(421
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lake Texoma
 
Gordonville
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
488
  
 
 
1,151
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
562
  
 
 
494
  
 
 
1,713
  
 
 
2,207
  
 
 
(374
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lake Whitney
 
Whitney
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
679
  
 
 
1,602
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
689
  
 
 
2,162
  
 
 
2,851
  
 
 
(442
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Lakewood
 
Harlingen
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
325
  
 
 
979
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
325
  
 
 
1,099
  
 
 
1,424
  
 
 
(322
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Medina Lake
 
Lakehills
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
936
  
 
 
2,208
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
837
  
 
 
949
  
 
 
3,045
  
 
 
3,994
  
 
 
(673
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Paradise Park RV
 
Harlingen
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,568
  
 
 
4,705
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
597
  
 
 
1,568
  
 
 
5,302
  
 
 
6,870
  
 
 
(1,348
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Paradise South
 
Mercedes
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
448
  
 
 
1,345
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
246
  
 
 
448
  
 
 
1,591
  
 
 
2,039
  
 
 
(408
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Southern Comfort
 
Weslaco
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
3,323
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
263
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
3,586
  
 
 
4,694
  
 
 
(956
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Sunshine RV
 
Harlingen
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
4,484
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
896
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
5,380
  
 
 
6,874
  
 
 
(1,364
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Tropic Winds
 
Harlingen
 
 
TX
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,221
  
 
 
3,809
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
406
  
 
 
1,221
  
 
 
4,215
  
 
 
5,436
  
 
 
(1,372
) 
 
 
2002
  

 All Seasons
 
Salt Lake City
 
 
UT
  
 
 
(3,275
) 
 
 
510
  
 
 
1,623
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
510
  
 
 
2,089
  
 
 
2,599
  
 
 
(976
) 
 
 
1997
  

 St. George
 
Hurricane
 
 
UT
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
264
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
127
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
391
  
 
 
457
  
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
2010
  

 Westwood Village
 
Farr West
 
 
UT
  
 
 
(10,508
) 
 
 
1,346
  
 
 
4,179
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,805
  
 
 
1,346
  
 
 
5,984
  
 
 
7,330
  
 
 
(2,813
) 
 
 
1997
  

 Chesapeake Bay
 
Cloucester
 
 
VA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,230
  
 
 
2,900
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
868
  
 
 
1,246
  
 
 
3,768
  
 
 
5,014
  
 
 
(822
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Harbor View
 
Colonial Beach
 
 
VA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
202
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
508
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
(85
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Lynchburg
 
Gladys
 
 
VA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
627
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
164
  
 
 
269
  
 
 
791
  
 
 
1,060
  
 
 
(173
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Meadows of Chantilly
 
Chantilly
 
 
VA
  
 
 
(32,802
) 
 
 
5,430
  
 
 
16,440
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,552
  
 
 
5,430
  
 
 
22,992
  
 
 
28,422
  
 
 
(12,099
) 
 
 
1994
  

 Regency Lakes
 
Winchester
 
 
VA
  
 
 
(9,887
) 
 
 
9,757
  
 
 
19,055
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,757
  
 
 
19,055
  
 
 
28,812
  
 
 
(915
) 
 
 
2011
  

 Virginia Landing
 
Quinby
 
 
VA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
602
  
 
 
1,419
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
610
  
 
 
1,547
  
 
 
2,157
  
 
 
(373
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Williamsburg
 
Williamsburg
 
 
VA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
350
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
508
  
 
 
(73
) 
 
 
2006
  
  S - 14



Table of Contents
Schedule III  Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation  December 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)   


















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Cost to Company
 
 
Costs CapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition(Improvements)
 
 
Gross Amount Carriedat Close ofPeriod 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Real Estate
 
 Location
 
 
Encumbrances
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Land
 
 
DepreciableProperty
 
 
Total
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
 
 
Date ofAcquisition
 

 Birch Bay
 
Blaine
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
502
  
 
 
1,185
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
509
  
 
 
1,260
  
 
 
1,769
  
 
 
(297
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Cascade
 
Snoqualmie
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
822
  
 
 
1,939
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
253
  
 
 
833
  
 
 
2,192
  
 
 
3,025
  
 
 
(500
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Chehalis
 
Chehalis
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
590
  
 
 
1,392
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
460
  
 
 
598
  
 
 
1,852
  
 
 
2,450
  
 
 
(408
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Crescent Bar
 
Quincy
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
314
  
 
 
741
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
318
  
 
 
889
  
 
 
1,207
  
 
 
(196
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Grandy Creek
 
Concrete
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
475
  
 
 
1,425
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
101
  
 
 
475
  
 
 
1,526
  
 
 
2,001
  
 
 
(202
) 
 
 
2008
  

 Kloshe Illahee
 
Federal Way
 
 
WA
  
 
 
(16,937
) 
 
 
2,408
  
 
 
7,286
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
582
  
 
 
2,408
  
 
 
7,868
  
 
 
10,276
  
 
 
(3,740
) 
 
 
1997
  

 La Conner
 
La Conner
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
1,416
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
685
  
 
 
608
  
 
 
2,101
  
 
 
2,709
  
 
 
(461
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Leavenworth
 
Leavenworth
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
1,853
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
394
  
 
 
796
  
 
 
2,247
  
 
 
3,043
  
 
 
(501
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Little Diamond
 
Newport
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
353
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
585
  
 
 
358
  
 
 
1,419
  
 
 
1,777
  
 
 
(234
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Long Beach
 
Seaview
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
321
  
 
 
758
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
142
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
900
  
 
 
1,226
  
 
 
(199
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Mount Vernon
 
Bow
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
621
  
 
 
1,464
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
558
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
2,022
  
 
 
2,651
  
 
 
(438
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Oceana
 
Oceana City
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
283
  
 
 
668
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
287
  
 
 
749
  
 
 
1,036
  
 
 
(165
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Paradise
 
Silver Creek
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
1,099
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
159
  
 
 
472
  
 
 
1,258
  
 
 
1,730
  
 
 
(292
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Tall Chief
 
Fall City
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
314
  
 
 
946
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
1,131
  
 
 
1,446
  
 
 
(64
) 
 
 
2010
  

 Thunderbird
 
Monroe
 
 
WA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
1,178
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
159
  
 
 
506
  
 
 
1,337
  
 
 
1,843
  
 
 
(304
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Arrowhead
 
Wisconsin Dells
 
 
WI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
522
  
 
 
1,616
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
252
  
 
 
522
  
 
 
1,868
  
 
 
2,390
  
 
 
(330
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Fremont
 
Fremont
 
 
WI
  
 
 
(3,869
) 
 
 
1,437
  
 
 
4,296
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
1,437
  
 
 
4,668
  
 
 
6,105
  
 
 
(1,137
) 
 
 
2004
  

 Plymouth Rock
 
Elkhart Lake
 
 
WI
  
 
 
(6,667
) 
 
 
2,293
  
 
 
6,879
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
2,293
  
 
 
6,964
  
 
 
9,257
  
 
 
(684
) 
 
 
2009
  

 Tranquil Timbers
 
Sturgeon Bay
 
 
WI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
714
  
 
 
2,152
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
714
  
 
 
2,362
  
 
 
3,076
  
 
 
(440
) 
 
 
2006
  

 Yukon Trails
 
Lyndon Station
 
 
WI
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
556
  
 
 
1,629
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
145
  
 
 
556
  
 
 
1,774
  
 
 
2,330
  
 
 
(436
) 
 
 
2004
  


 

 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Subtotal of Properties Held for Long Term
 



 
 
(2,083,819
) 
 
 
1,013,069
  
 
 
2,506,211
  
 
 
5,452
  
 
 
380,304
  
 
 
1,018,521
  
 
 
2,886,515
  
 
 
3,905,036
  
 
 
(785,593
) 
 




 Realty Systems, Inc.
 

 



 
 
(864
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
157,302
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
157,302
  
 
 
157,302
  
 
 
(14,768
) 
 
 
2002
  

 Management Business and other
 



 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
436
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16,599
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,035
  
 
 
17,035
  
 
 
(13,565
) 
 
 
1990
  


 

 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 





 

 



 
$
(2,084,683
) 
 
$
1,013,069
  
 
$
2,506,647
  
 
$
5,452
  
 
$
554,205
  
 
$
1,018,521
  
 
$
3,060,852
  
 
$
4,079,373
  
 
$
(813,926
) 
 





 

 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 NOTES:   


(1)
 For depreciable property, the Company uses a 30-year estimated life for
buildings acquired and structural and land improvements, a ten-to-fifteen year estimated life for building upgrades, a five-year estimated life for furniture and fixtures and a one-year life for acquired in-place leases. New rental units are
generally depreciated using a 20-year estimated life from the model year down to a salvage value of 40% of the original costs. Used rental units are generally depreciated based on the estimate life of the unit with no estimated salvage value.



(2)
 The schedule excludes Properties in which the Company has a
non-controlling joint venture interest and accounts for using the equity method of accounting. 
  S - 15



Table of Contents
Schedule III 
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc.  Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  December 31, 2011
 (amounts in thousands)   


(3)
 The aggregate cost of land and depreciable property for federal income tax purposes was approximately $3.9 billion, unaudited, as of
December 31, 2011. 


(4)
 All Properties were acquired, except for Country Place Village, which was constructed. 
The changes in total real estate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance, beginning of year
  
$
2,584,987
  
  
$
2,538,215
  
 
$
2,491,021
  

 Acquisitions
  
 
1,431,339
  
  
 
2,796
  
 
 
18,879
  

 Improvements
  
 
62,032
  
  
 
48,629
  
 
 
30,114
  

 Dispositions and other
  
 
1,015
  
  
 
(4,653
) 
 
 
(8,526
) 

 Inventory reclassification
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
6,727
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, end of year
  
$
4,079,373
  
  
$
2,584,987
  
 
$
2,538,215
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010,
and 2009 were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance, beginning of year
  
$
700,665
  
 
$
629,768
  
 
$
561,104
  

 Depreciation expense (a)
  
 
85,234
  
 
 
72,128
  
 
 
72,419
  

 Amortization of in-place leases
  
 
28,479
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Dispositions and other
  
 
(452
) 
 
 
(1,231
) 
 
 
(3,755
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, end of year
  
$
813,926
  
 
$
700,665
  
 
$
629,768
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    


(a)
 Includes
approximately $4.3 million, $2.8 million and $2.4 million of depreciation from rental operations included in Ancillary services revenues, net for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  S - 16




