
10-K
1
d262604d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, DC 20549   
  Form 10-K
    
 


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934. 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
December 31, 2011 
or 


¨    
TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934. 
For the transition period
from            to              Commission File Number: 0-24006   
  NEKTAR
THERAPEUTICS  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
   
 






Delaware
 
94-3134940

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (IRS Employer Identification No.)
 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South 
San Francisco, California 94158  (Address of principal executive offices and zip code)  415-482-5300
 (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 
   
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $0.0001 par value
 
NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes  ¨    No  x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days)    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one):   










Large accelerated filer
 
x
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨ (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2)
    Yes   ¨     No  x 
The approximate aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the last sale price of the
registrant’s common stock on the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, June 30, 2011 (based upon the closing sale price of the registrant’s common stock listed as reported on the
NASDAQ Global Select Market), was approximately $827,788,677. This calculation excludes approximately 441,119 shares held by directors and executive officers of the registrant. Exclusion of these shares does not constitute a determination that each
such person is an affiliate of the registrant.  As of February 24, 2012, the number of outstanding shares of the
registrant’s common stock was 114,530,745.   
  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement to be filed for its 2012 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof. Such Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
   
 


Table of Contents
NEKTAR THERAPEUTICS 
2011 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  TABLE OF CONTENTS   










 
 
 
  
Page
 

PART I
  




Item 1.
 
 Business
  
 
4
  

Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
  
 
32
  

Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
48
  

Item 2.
 
 Properties
  
 
48
  

Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
48
  

Item 4.
 
 [Removed and Reserved]
  
 
48
  

PART II
  




Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
49
  

Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
51
  

Item 7.
 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
52
  

Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
66
  

Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
68
  

Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
103
  

Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
103
  

Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
  
 
104
  

PART III
  




Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
105
  

Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
  
 
105
  

Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
105
  

Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
  
 
105
  

Item 14.
 
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
105
  

PART IV
  




Item 15.
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
106
  

Signatures 
  
 
110
  

  2 


Table of Contents
Forward-Looking Statements  This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements other than statements of historical fact are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of this annual report on Form 10-K, including any projections
of earnings, revenue or other financial items, any statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations (including, but not limited to, pre-clinical development, clinical trials and manufacturing), any statements concerning
proposed drug candidates, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, any statements regarding the success of our collaboration arrangements, any statements regarding our plans and objectives to initiate clinical studies, and
any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,”
“anticipates,” “estimates,” “potential” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained
herein are reasonable, such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements may prove to be incorrect and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition
and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” below and for the
reasons described elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this report are made as of the date hereof and we do not intend to update any forward-looking statements
except as required by law or applicable regulations. Except where the context otherwise requires, in this annual report on Form 10-K, the “Company,” “Nektar,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Nektar
Therapeutics, a Delaware corporation, and, where appropriate, its subsidiaries.  Trademarks 
The Nektar brand and product names, including but not limited to Nektar®, contained in this document are trademarks, registered trademarks or service marks of Nektar Therapeutics in the
United States (U.S.) and certain other countries. This document also contains references to trademarks and service marks of other companies that are the property of their respective owners. 
  3 


Table of Contents
PART I   


Item 1.
Business  
We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company developing a pipeline of drug candidates that utilize our PEGylation and advanced
polymer conjugate technology platforms, which are designed to improve the benefits of drugs for patients. Our current proprietary pipeline is comprised of drug candidates across a number of therapeutic areas including oncology, pain,
anti-infectives, anti-viral and immunology. Our research and development activities involve small molecule drugs, peptides and other potential biologic drug candidates. We create our innovative drug candidates by using our proprietary advanced
polymer conjugate technologies and expertise to modify the chemical structure of drugs to create new molecular entities. Polymer chemistry is a science focused on the synthesis or bonding of polymer architectures with drug molecules to alter the
properties of a molecule when it is bonded with polymers. Additionally, we may utilize established pharmacologic targets to engineer a new drug candidate relying on a combination of the known properties of these targets and our proprietary polymer
chemistry technology and expertise. Our drug candidates are designed to improve the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, half-life, bioavailability, metabolism or distribution of drugs and improve the overall benefits and use of a drug for the
patient. Our objective is to apply our advanced polymer conjugate technology platform to create new drug candidates in multiple therapeutic areas that address large potential markets. 
Our most advanced proprietary drug candidate, NKTR-118, is an oral peripherally-acting opioid antagonist, currently in Phase 3 clinical
studies for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in patients with non-cancer pain and cancer pain. OIC is a common side effect of prescription opioids when used for chronic pain management. In September 2009, we entered into a global
license agreement with AstraZeneca AB (AstraZeneca) for the global development and commercialization of NKTR-118 and NKTR-119. NKTR-119 is an early stage research and development program that is designed to combine various opioids with NKTR-118.
AstraZeneca is responsible for all clinical, regulatory and commercialization costs for NKTR-118 and NKTR-119.  Our second
most advanced drug candidate, NKTR-102, is a next-generation topoisomerase I inhibitor, currently being evaluated as a single-agent therapy in a Phase 3 clinical study in patients with metastatic breast cancer. This Phase 3 clinical study, which we
call the BEACON study (BrEAst Cancer Outcomes with NKTR-102), was initiated by us in December 2011. The BEACON study is designed to enroll approximately 840 women with metastatic breast cancer who have had prior treatment with anthracycline, taxane
and capecitabine in either the adjuvant or metastatic setting. Patients in the BEACON study will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to receive either single-agent NKTR-102 or a single agent of physician’s choice. The primary endpoint of the BEACON
study will be overall survival, and secondary endpoints will include progression-free survival and objective tumor response rate.  NKTR-102 is also being evaluated in a Phase 2 clinical study in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and a Phase 2 clinical study in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The Phase 2
clinical study of NKTR-102 in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer completed enrollment of 71 patients in 2009. The study was further expanded to enroll up to 110 additional women with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer whose disease had
progressed after prior treatment with Doxil® (doxorubicin HCl liposome injection). In November 2011, we
announced that enrollment in this expanded Phase 2 study had significantly slowed due to a shortage of Doxil®
resulting from serious manufacturing issues being experienced by the manufacturer and supplier of Doxil®. As of
February 2012, approximately 94 of the planned 110 patients had been enrolled in the study. We are currently in the process of compiling the data from this expanded study and performing verification procedures on preliminary interim results from the
patients enrolled to date. Results from this study and communication with government health authorities in both the United States and European Union (E.U.) will guide our future development and regulatory strategy for NKTR-102 in ovarian cancer. A
Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer is still enrolling patients, and a Phase 1 study of NKTR-102 in combination with F-fluorouracil/leucovorin is also continuing to enroll patients. 
  4 


Table of Contents
We also have several proprietary pre-clinical and clinical drug candidates that are in the
pain therapeutic area. NKTR-181 is an orally-available mu-opioid analgesic molecule with a long-acting profile to treat chronic pain that has been designed with the objective of addressing serious CNS-related side effects associated with standard
opioid therapies. These CNS-related side effects include abuse liability, sedation and respiratory depression. We have completed two separate Phase 1 clinical studies for NKTR-181 and we are currently preparing for a Phase 2 clinical study that we
plan to initiate in mid-2012. The Phase 2 clinical study design is a randomized, double-blind, efficacy and safety study of NKTR-181 as compared to placebo in patients with chronic pain. NKTR-192 is an orally available mu-opioid analgesic molecule
with a short-acting profile to treat acute pain that has been designed with the objective to also address the serious CNS-related side effects associated with standard short-acting opioid therapies. NKTR-192 completed preclinical work in 2011 and we
plan to begin a Phase 1 clinical study in 2012 subject to our investigational new drug application (IND) clearing the FDA review period.  We also have a number of license, manufacturing and supply agreements with leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including Affymax, Inc., Amgen Inc., Baxter Healthcare, MAP Pharmaceuticals,
Inc., Merck & Co., Inc. (through its acquisition of Schering Plough), Pfizer Inc., F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (Roche), and UCB Pharma. A total of seven products using our PEGylation technology have received regulatory approval in the U.S. or
EU, and are currently marketed by our collaboration partners. There are also a number of other products in clinical development that incorporate our advanced PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies. 
We have a significant collaboration with Baxter Healthcare to identify and develop PEGylated drug candidates with the objective of
providing new long-acting therapies for hemophilia patients. We are providing our PEGylation technology and expertise. Baxter is responsible for all clinical development. The first drug candidate in this collaboration, BAX 855, is a longer-acting
(PEGylated) form of a full-length recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) protein in Phase 1 clinical development in patients with hemophilia A. In addition to incorporating our PEGylation technology, BAX 855 is also based on Baxter’s ADVATE
[Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant) Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] full-length rFVIII molecule and plasma/albumin-free (PAF) manufacturing process. The Phase 1 clinical study is a prospective, open-label study that will assess the safety, tolerability
and pharmacokinetics of BAX 855 in previously-treated patients aged 12 years or older with severe hemophilia A. When used for prophylaxis, Baxter’s ADVATE requires patients to infuse every two to three days to reduce the occurrence of bleeding
episodes. This Phase 1 clinical study is the first step in assessing whether BAX 855 can be infused less frequently in patients while achieving a similar efficacy and safety profile. If the Phase 1 clinical study is successful, Baxter plans to then
initiate Phase 3 studies for BAX 855.  We also have a significant collaboration with Bayer Healthcare LLC (Bayer) to develop
BAY41-6551 (NKTR-061, Amikacin Inhale), which is an inhaled solution of amikacin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic. We originally developed the liquid aerosol inhalation platform and NKTR-061 drug candidate and entered into a collaboration agreement
with Bayer in August 2007 to further advance the drug candidate’s development and potential commercialization. Under the collaboration agreement, we are responsible for all future development of the nebulizer device and clinical and commercial
manufacturing and supply of the device. BAY41-6551 completed Phase 2 development and we and Bayer are currently preparing for the start of a Phase 3 clinical study. Bayer and Nektar have been working together to prepare for Phase 3 clinical program
for BAY41-6551 following the consummation of the collaboration in August 2007. This program is significantly behind schedule due to the fact that Bayer and Nektar decided to finalize the design of the device for commercial manufacturing prior to
initiating Phase 3 clinical development. In 2011, Bayer received agreement with the FDA on the design of the planned Phase 3 clinical studies of BAY41-6551 under the Special Protocol Assessment process that is intended to support the submission of a
New Drug Application (NDA) if the planned Phase 3 clinical study is successful.  On December 31, 2008, we completed the
sale and transfer of certain pulmonary technology rights, certain pulmonary collaboration agreements and approximately 140 of our dedicated pulmonary personnel and operations to Novartis Pharma AG. We retained all of our rights to BAY41-6551 and
certain rights to receive 
  5 


Table of Contents

royalties on net sales of the Cipro Inhale (also known as Ciprofloxacin Inhaled Powder or CIP) program with Bayer Schering Pharma AG that we transferred to Novartis as part of the transaction. We
also retained certain rights to patents specific to inhaled insulin.  Corporate Information 
We were incorporated in California in 1990 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1998. We maintain our executive offices at 455 Mission Bay
Boulevard South, San Francisco, California 94158, and our main telephone number is (415) 482-5300. Our website is located at www.nektar.com. The information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of, and is not
incorporated in, this Annual Report.  Our Technology Platform 
As a leader in the PEGylation field, we have advanced our technology platform to include first-generation PEGylation
technology as well as new advanced polymer conjugate chemistries that can be tailored in very specific and customized ways with the objective of optimizing and significantly improving the profile of a wide range of molecules including many classes
of drugs useful in many disease areas. PEGylation has been a highly effective technology platform for the development of therapeutics with significant commercial success, such as Roche’s
PEGASYS® (PEG-interferon alfa-2a) and Amgen’s Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim). Nearly all of the PEGylated drugs approved over the last fifteen years were enabled with our PEGylation technology through our collaborations and
licensing partnerships with a number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. PEGylation is a versatile technology as a result of polyethylene glycol (PEG) being a water soluble, amphiphilic, non-toxic, non-immunogenic compound that is safely
cleared from the body. Its primary use to date has been in currently approved biologic drugs to favorably alter their pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic properties. However, in spite of its widespread success in commercial drugs, there are
limitations with the first-generation PEGylation approaches that have been used with biologics. Earlier PEGylation technology applications were limited, in that they could not be used successfully to improve small molecule drugs, antibody fragments
and peptides, all of which could potentially benefit from the application of the technology. Other limitations of the early applications of PEGylation technology include sub-optimal bioavailability and bioactivity, and its limited ability to be used
to fine-tune properties of the drug, as well as its inability to be used to create oral drugs.  With our expertise and
proprietary technology in PEGylation, we have created the next generation of PEGylation technology. Our advanced polymer conjugate technology platform is designed to overcome the limitations of the first generation of the technology platform and
allow the platform to be utilized with a broader range of molecules across many therapeutic areas.  Both our PEGylation and
advanced polymer conjugate technology platforms have the potential to offer one or more of the following benefits:   


 
•
 
 improve efficacy or safety in certain instances as a result of better pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, longer half-life and sustained exposure of
the drug;   


 
•
 
 improve targeting or binding affinity of a drug to its target receptors with the potential to improve efficacy and reduce toxicity or drug resistance;
  


 
•
 
 improve solubility of a drug;   


 
•
 
 enable oral administration of parenterally-administered drugs, or drugs that must be administered intravenously or subcutaneously, and increase oral
bioavailability of small molecules;   


 
•
 
 prevent drugs from crossing the blood-brain barrier, or reduce their rate of passage into the brain, thereby limiting undesirable central nervous
system effects;   


 
•
 
 reduce first-pass metabolism effects of certain drug classes with the potential to improve efficacy, which could reduce the need for other medicines
and reduce toxicity; 
  6 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 reduce the rates of drug absorption and of elimination or metabolism by improving stability of the drug in the body and providing it with more time to
act on its target; and   


 
•
 
 reduce immune response to certain macromolecules with the potential to prolong their effectiveness with repeated doses. 
We have a broad range of approaches that we may use when designing our own drug candidates, some of which are outlined below: 
Small Molecule Stable Polymer Conjugates  Our customized approaches for small molecule polymer conjugates allows for the fine-tuning of the physicochemical and pharmacological properties of small molecule oral drugs to potentially increase their
therapeutic benefit. In addition, this approach can enable oral administration of subcutaneously or intravenously delivered small molecule drugs that have low bioavailability when delivered orally. The benefits of this approach can also include:
improved potency, modified biodistribution with enhanced pharmacodynamics, and reduced transport across specific membrane barriers in the body, such as the blood-brain barrier. A primary example of reducing transport across the blood-brain barrier
is NKTR-118, an orally-available peripheral opioid antagonist that is in Phase 3 clinical studies with our partner AstraZeneca. An additional example of the application of membrane transport, specifically slowing transport across the blood-brain
barrier is NKTR-181, an orally-available mu-opioid analgesic molecule that has completed Phase 1 clinical development. An example of a drug candidate that uses this approach to avoid first-pass metabolism is NKTR-140, a protease inhibitor that is in
the early stages of discovery research.  Small Molecule Pro-Drug Releasable Polymer Conjugates 
The pro-drug polymer conjugation approach can be used to optimize the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of a small molecule drug to
substantially increase both its efficacy and side effect profile. We are currently using this platform with oncolytics, which typically have sub-optimal half-lives that can limit their therapeutic efficacy. With our technology platform, we believe
that these drugs can be modulated for programmed release within the body, optimized bioactivity and increased sustained exposure of active drug to tumor cells in the body. We are using this approach with the oncolytic drug candidate in our pipeline,
NKTR-102, a next-generation topoisomerase I-inhibitor, currently in Phase 3 clinical development in metastatic breast cancer, and Phase 2 development in ovarian and colorectal cancers. 
Large Molecule Polymer Conjugates (Proteins and Peptides) 
Our customized approaches with large molecule polymer conjugates have enabled numerous successful PEGylated biologics on the market today.
We are using our advanced polymer conjugation technology-based approach to enable peptides, which are much smaller in size than other biologics, such as proteins and antibody fragments. We are in the early stages of discovery research with a number
of peptides that utilize this proprietary approach. Peptides are important in modulating many physiological processes in the body. Some of the benefits of working with peptides are: they are small, more easily optimized, and can be rapidly
investigated for therapeutic potential. However, peptide drug discovery has been slowed by the extremely short half-life and limited bioavailability of these molecules.  Based on our knowledge of the technology and biologics, our scientists have designed novel hydrolyzable linkers that in many cases can be used to optimize bioactivity. Through rational drug design, a
protein or peptide’s pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics can be substantially improved and its half-life can be significantly extended. An example of this is BAX 855, a longer-acting (PEGylated) form of a full-length recombinant factor VIII
(rFVIII) protein, which is currently being evaluated in Phase 1 clinical development by our partner Baxter for the treatment of hemophilia A. An additional example includes peginesatide, a synthetic,

  7 


Table of Contents

PEGylated peptidic compound that binds to and stimulates the erythropoietin receptor and thus acts as an erythropoiesis stimulating agent. Peginesatide has completed Phase 3 clinical studies and
has been filed for approval with the FDA to treat renal anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease on dialysis by our partner Affymax, Inc. 
Antibody Fragment Polymer Conjugates  This approach uses a large molecular weight PEG conjugated to antibody fragments in order to potentially improve their toxicity profile, extend their half-life and allow for ease of synthesis with the
antibody. The specially designed PEG replaces the function of the Fc domain of full length antibodies with a branched architecture PEG with either stable or degradable linkage. This approach can be used to reduce antigenicity, reduce glomerular
filtration rate, enhance uptake by inflamed tissues, and retain antigen-binding affinity and recognition. There is currently one approved product on the market that utilizes our technology with an antibody fragment, CIMZIA® (certoluzimab pegol), which was developed by our partner UCB Pharma and is approved for the treatment of
Crohn’s Disease in the U.S. and rheumatoid arthritis in the U.S. and E.U.  Our Strategy 
The key elements of our business strategy are described below:  Advance Our Proprietary Internal Clinical Pipeline of Drug Candidates that Leverage Our PEGylation and Advanced Polymer Conjugate Chemistry Platform 
Our objective is to create value by advancing our lead drug candidates through various stages of clinical development. To support this
strategy, over the past four years we have significantly expanded and added expertise to our internal clinical development and regulatory departments. A key component of our development strategy is to potentially reduce the risks and time associated
with drug development by capitalizing on the known safety and efficacy of approved drugs as well as established pharmacologic targets and drugs directed to those targets. For many of our novel drug candidates, we may seek to study the drug
candidates in indications for which the parent drugs have not been studied or approved. We believe that the improved characteristics of our drug candidates will provide meaningful benefit to patients compared to the existing therapies. In addition,
in certain instances we have the opportunity to develop new treatments for patients for which the parent drugs are not currently approved.  Ensure Future Growth of our Proprietary Internal Pipeline through Internal Research Efforts and Advancement of our Preclinical Drug Candidates into Clinical Trials 
We believe it is important to maintain a diverse pipeline of new drug candidates to continue to build on the value of our business. Our
discovery research organization is identifying new drug candidates by applying our technology platform to a wide range of molecule classes, including small molecules and large proteins, peptides and antibodies, across multiple therapeutic areas. We
continue to advance our most promising research drug candidates into preclinical development with the objective to advance these early stage research programs to human clinical studies over the next several years. 
Enter into Strategic and High-Value Partnerships to Bring Certain of Our Drug Candidates to Market 
We decide on a drug candidate-by-drug candidate basis how far to advance clinical development (e.g. Phase 1, 2 or 3) and whether to
commercialize products on our own, or seek a partner, or pursue a combination of these approaches. For example, in December 2010, we decided that we would move NKTR-102 into Phase 3 development in metastatic breast cancer prior to completing a
collaboration partnership for this drug candidate. When we determine to seek a partner, our strategy is to enter into collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to fund further clinical development, manage the global
regulatory filing process, and market and sell drugs in one or more geographies. The options for future collaboration arrangements range from 
  8 


Table of Contents

comprehensive licensing and commercialization arrangements to co-promotion and co-development agreements with the structure of the collaboration depending on factors such as the structure of
economic risk sharing, the cost and complexity of development, marketing and commercialization needs, therapeutic area and geographic capabilities.  Continue to Build a Leading Intellectual Property Estate in the Field of PEGylation and Polymer Conjugate Chemistry across Therapeutic Modalities 
We are committed to continuing to build on our intellectual property position in the field of PEGylation and polymer conjugate chemistry.
To that end, we have a comprehensive patent strategy with the objective of developing a patent estate covering a wide range of novel inventions including among others, polymer materials, conjugates, formulations, synthesis, therapeutic areas and
methods of treatment.  Nektar Proprietary Internal Drug Candidates in Clinical Development 
The following table summarizes our proprietary Nektar-discovered drug candidates that are being developed by us or in collaboration with
other pharmaceutical companies. The table includes the type of molecule or drug, the target indications for the drug candidate, and the status of the clinical development program. 
 








 Drug Candidate/Program
 
 Target Indications
 
 Status(1)

 NKTR-118 (orally available peripheral opioid antagonist)
 
Opioid-induced constipation
 
Phase 3 (Partnered with AstraZeneca AB)





 NKTR-102 (next-generation topoisomerase I inhibitor)
 
Metastatic breast cancer
 
Phase 3





 BAY41-6551 (Amikacin Inhale, formerly NKTR-061)
 
Gram-negative pneumonias
 
Completed Phase 2 (Partnered with Bayer Healthcare LLC)*





 NKTR-102
 
Platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer
 
Phase 2





 NKTR-102
 
Second-line metastatic colorectal cancer in patients with the KRAS gene mutation
 
Phase 2





 NKTR-181 (orally-available mu-opioid analgesic molecule)
 
Chronic pain
 
Phase 1





 NKTR-102 (in combination with F-fluorouracil/leucovorin)
 
Metastatic Colorectal cancer
 
Phase 1





 NKTR-119 (opioid/NKTR-118 combinations)
 
Pain
 
Research/Preclinical (Partnered with AstraZeneca AB)





 NKTR-192 (orally-available mu-opioid analgesic molecule)
 
Acute pain
 
Research/Preclinical





 NKTR-171
 
Neuropathic pain
 
Research/Preclinical





 NKTR-140
 
HIV
 
Research/Preclinical
  


(1)
Status definitions are: 
Phase 3 or Pivotal — a drug candidate in large-scale clinical trials conducted to obtain regulatory approval to market and
sell the drug (these trials are typically initiated following encouraging Phase 2 trial results).  Phase 2 — a drug
candidate in clinical trials to establish dosing and efficacy in patients. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Phase 1 — a drug candidate in clinical trials, typically in healthy subjects, to
test safety. In the case of oncology drug candidates, Phase 1 clinical trials are typically conducted in cancer patients. 
Research/Preclinical — a drug candidate being studied in research by way of in-vitro studies and/or animal studies.
  


*
This drug candidate uses a liquid aerosol technology platform that was transferred to Novartis by us in the pulmonary asset sale transaction that was completed
on December 31, 2008. As part of that transaction, we retained an exclusive license to this technology for the development and commercialization of this drug candidate originally developed by us. 
Approved Drugs and Drug Candidates Enabled By Our Technology through Licensing Collaborations 
The following table outlines our collaborations with a number of pharmaceutical companies that license our intellectual property. A total
of seven products using our PEGylation technology have received regulatory approval in the U.S. or Europe. There are also a number of other candidates that have been filed for approval or are in various stages of clinical development. These
collaborations generally contain one or more elements including a license to our intellectual property rights and manufacturing and supply agreements under which we may receive manufacturing revenue, milestone payments, and/or royalties on
commercial sales of drug products.   










 Drug
 
 Primary or Target
Indications
 
 Drug
Marketer/Partner
 
 Status(1)






Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim)
 
Neutropenia
 
Amgen Inc.
 
Approved






PEGASYS® (peginterferon alfa-2a)
 
Hepatitis-C
 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
 
Approved






Somavert® (pegvisomant)
 
Acromegaly
 
Pfizer Inc.
 
Approved






PEG-INTRON® (peginterferon
alfa-2b)
 
Hepatitis-C
 
Merck (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)
 
Approved






Macugen® (pegaptanib sodium
injection)
 
Age-related macular degeneration
 
Eyetech, Inc.
 
Approved






CIMZIA® (certolizumab pegol)
 
Rheumatoid arthritis
 
UCB Pharma
 
 Approved in U.S., EU and Switzerland; filed in Japan*






CIMZIA® (certolizumab pegol)
 
Crohn’s disease
 
UCB Pharma
 
Approved in the U.S. and Switzerland*






MIRCERA® (C.E.R.A.) (Continuous
Erythropoietin Receptor Activator)
 
Anemia associated with chronic kidney disease in patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis
 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
 
Approved in U.S., EU and Japan (Launched only in the EU and Japan)**






Peginesatide (synthetic peptide-based, erythropoiesis- stimulating agent)
 
Anemia associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in adult patients on dialysis
 
Affymax, Inc.
 
Filed for approval in U.S.






LEVADEX®
 
Migraine
 
MAP Pharmaceuticals
 
Filed for approval in U.S.






CIMZIA® (certoluzimab pegol)
 
Psoriasis/Ankylosing Spondylitis
 
UCB Pharma
 
Phase 3






Cipro Inhale
 
Cystic fibrosis lung infections
 
Bayer Schering Pharma AG
 
Completed Phase 2***






BAX-855 (pegylated rFVIII)
 
Hemophilia A
 
Baxter Healthcare
 
Phase 1






Longer-acting blood clotting proteins
 
Hemophilia
 
Baxter Healthcare
 
Research/Preclinical

  10 


Table of Contents
 


(1)
Status definitions are: 
Approved — regulatory approval to market and sell product obtained in the U.S., EU and other countries. 
Filed — an application for approval and marketing has been filed with the applicable government health authority. 
Phase 3 or Pivotal — product in large-scale clinical trials conducted to obtain regulatory approval to market and sell the
drug (these trials are typically initiated following encouraging Phase 2 trial results).  Phase 2 — a drug
candidate in clinical trials to establish dosing and efficacy in patients.  Phase 1 — a drug candidate in clinical
trials, typically in healthy subjects, to test safety.  Research/Preclinical — a drug candidate is being studied in
research by way of vitro studies and/or animal studies   


*
 In February 2012, we sold our rights to receive royalties on future worldwide net sales of CIMZIA® effective as of January 1, 2012 until the agreement with UCB is terminated or expires. 


**
 Amgen Inc. prevailed in a patent lawsuit against F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and as a result of this legal ruling Roche is currently prevented from
marketing MIRCERA® in the U.S until July 2014. In February 2012, we sold our rights to receive royalties on
future worldwide net sales of MIRCERA® effective as of January 1, 2012 until the agreement with Roche is
terminated or expires. 


***
This drug candidate was developed using our proprietary pulmonary delivery technology that was transferred by us to Novartis in an asset sale transaction that closed on
December 31, 2008. As part of the transaction, Novartis assumed our rights and obligations for our Cipro Inhale agreements with Bayer Schering Pharma AG; however, we maintained the rights to receive certain royalties on commercial sales of
Cipro Inhale if the drug candidate is approved.  With respect to all of our collaboration and license agreements with third
parties, please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors, including without limitation, “We are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes,
litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.” 
Overview of Selected Nektar Proprietary Drug Development Programs and Significant Partnered Drug Development Programs 
NKTR-118 and NKTR-119, License Agreement with AstraZeneca AB 
In September 2009, we entered into a global license agreement with AstraZeneca AB (AstraZeneca) pursuant to which we granted AstraZeneca a
worldwide, exclusive, perpetual, royalty-bearing license under our patents and other intellectual property to develop, market and sell NKTR-118 and NKTR-119. Under the terms of this agreement, AstraZeneca made a license payment to us of
$125.0 million and AstraZeneca has responsibility for all activities and bears all costs associated with research, development and commercialization for NKTR-118 and NKTR-119. For NKTR-118, we are also entitled to up to $235.0 million upon
certain filings and commercial launch milestones for NKTR-118, and $375.0 million in sales milestones if the product achieves certain annual commercial sales levels. With respect to the $235.0 million in milestones due upon certain filings and
commercial launch milestones for NKTR-118, when filing occurs in the US and in the EU or Japan, Nektar will be entitled to up to $95.0 million of those milestones. The remaining milestone payments are due upon the commercial launches of NKTR-118 in
those regions. For NKTR-119, we are also eligible to receive significant development milestones as well as significant sales milestones if the program achieves certain annual commercial sales levels. For both NKTR-118 and NKTR-119, we are also
entitled to significant double-digit royalty payments, varying by country of sale and level of annual net sales. Our right to receive royalties (subject to certain adjustments) in any particular country will expire upon the later of
(a) specified period of time after the first commercial sale of the product in that country or (b) the expiration of patent rights in that particular country.  NKTR-118 is an orally-available peripheral opioid antagonist that is in Phase 3 clinical studies being conducted by AstraZeneca — which AstraZeneca calls the KODIAC study. The KODIAC study is
evaluating the 
  11 


Table of Contents

efficacy and safety of NKTR-118 for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in patients with non-cancer pain and cancer pain. The KODIAC study includes two 12-week, randomized,
placebo-controlled efficacy studies (with approximately 630 randomized patients each) and an open-label, randomized, 52-week long-term safety study with a “usual care” comparator arm. The 12-week efficacy studies will compare response rate
among placebo and two different doses of NKTR-118 with primary endpoint at 12 weeks. There is a three month safety extension following one of the two 12-week studies. AstraZeneca is planning global regulatory submissions for NKTR-118, with first
regulatory filings for NKTR-118 in the US and EU planned for 2013 if the KODIAC studies are successful.  Data from a Phase 2
study conducted by us showed that NKTR-118 achieved the primary endpoint of change from baseline in spontaneous bowel movements in patients taking opioids with chronic OIC. The study also showed that there was no apparent reversal of opioid-mediated
analgesia with any of the NKTR-118 dose groups, as measured by no change in Numeric Rating Scale pain scores, no evidence of opioid withdrawal, and no increase in mean daily opioid use. The most commonly reported side effects from the Phase 2
clinical study of NKTR-118 were dose dependent gastrointestinal-related effects, which were mild and transient.  According to
the American Pain Society and IMS Health, over 200 million opioid prescriptions are filled in the U.S. annually with annual worldwide sales of opioids exceeding $10 billion. Depending on the population studied and the definitions
used, OIC occurs in up to 40-90% of patients taking opioids. Clinically, OIC is the most prevalent side effect of opioid therapy. Currently, there are no specific oral drugs approved or specifically indicated to treat OIC. 
NKTR-119 is an early stage drug development program that is intended to combine NKTR-118 with selected opioids, with the goal of treating
pain without the side effect of constipation traditionally associated with opioid therapy. AstraZeneca has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop one product based on NKTR-119 and has the right to develop multiple products which
combine NKTR-118 with other opioids.  NKTR-102 (next generation topoisomerase I inhibitor) 
We are developing NKTR-102, a next generation topoisomerase I (topo I) inhibitor, that was designed using our PEGylation technology.
NKTR-102 is a novel macromolecular chemotherapeutic designed to enhance the anti-cancer effects of topo I inhibition while minimizing its toxicities. Unlike irinotecan, a first generation topo I inhibitor that exhibits a high initial peak
concentration and short half-life, NKTR-102’s unique pro-drug design results in a lowered initial peak concentration of active topo I inhibitor in the blood. The large NKTR-102 molecule is inactive when administered. Over time, the body’s
natural enzymatic processes slowly metabolize the linkers within the molecule, continuously freeing active drug that then can work to stop tumor cell division through topo I inhibition. In preclinical models, NKTR-102 achieved a 300-fold increase in
tumor concentration as compared to irinotecan. Because NKTR-102 is a large molecule, based on preclinical studies we believe that it may penetrate the leaky vasculature within the tumor environment more readily than normal vasculature, concentrating
and trapping NKTR-102 in tumor tissue. Clinical studies have shown that NKTR-102 has an extended pharmacokinetic profile and remains in circulation throughout the entire chemotherapy cycle, providing sustained exposure to topo I inhibition.
 NKTR-102 is currently being evaluated as a single-agent therapy (145 mg/m2 every 21 days) in a Phase 3 open-label,
randomized, multicenter clinical study in patients with metastatic breast cancer. This Phase 3 clinical study, which we call BEACON (BrEAst Cancer Outcomes with NKTR-102), was initiated in December 2011. The BEACON study plans to include
approximately 160 investigator sites worldwide including sites in North America, Eastern and Western Europe, and certain countries in Asia/Pacific. The BEACON study plans to enroll approximately 840 patients with metastatic breast cancer who
have had prior treatment with anthracycline, taxane and capecitabine in either the adjuvant or metastatic setting. This study will randomize patients on a 1:1 basis to receive single-agent NKTR-102 or a single agent chosen from a defined set of
physician’s choice alternatives. The physician’s choice single agents will include the following: ixabepilone, vinorelbine, 
  12 


Table of Contents

gemcitabine, eribulin, or a taxane. Randomization will be stratified by geographic region, prior treatment with eribulin and whether or not the patient has triple negative breast
cancer. The primary endpoint of the BEACON study will be overall survival, and secondary endpoints will include progression-free survival and objective tumor response rate. Secondary endpoints and objectives also include clinical benefit rate,
duration of response, pharmacokinetic data, safety profiles, quality-of-life measurements, and pharmacoeconomic implications. Exploratory objectives of the study will include collecting specific biomarker data to correlate with objective tumor
response rate, progression-free survival, overall survival and selected toxicities. According to the American Cancer Society
and World Health Organization, more than one million women worldwide are diagnosed with breast cancer globally every year. The chance of developing invasive breast cancer at some time in a woman’s life is a little less than one in eight
(12%). In 2011, there were an estimated 230,000 new cases of breast cancer in the United States and 460,000 new cases in Europe. Metastatic breast cancer refers to cancer that has spread from the breast to distant sites in the
body. Anthracyclines and taxanes are the among the most active and widely used chemotherapeutic agents for breast cancer, but the increased use of these agents at an early stage of disease often renders tumors resistant to these drugs by the
time the disease recurs, thereby reducing the number of treatment options for metastatic disease. There are currently no FDA-approved topoisomerase I inhibitors to treat breast cancer. 
NKTR-102 is also being evaluated in a Phase 2 clinical study in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. This
clinical study is an open label, randomized, study evaluating two treatment schedules of single-agent NKTR-102 (145 mg/m2 every 14 days or every 21 days). Each schedule originally followed a two-stage Simon design and a total of
71 patients were initially included in the study that was completed in the first half of 2010. In the second half of 2010, we expanded this Phase 2 study to include approximately 50 additional women who had previously received Doxil® therapy to continue to evaluate the every 21-day dose schedule of single-agent NKTR-102 in this subset of women. On
March 1, 2011, we announced that we intended to further expand this Phase 2 clinical study by approximately 60 additional patients. In November 2011, we announced that enrollment in this expanded study had significantly slowed due to
a shortage of Doxil® resulting from serious manufacturing issues being experienced by the manufacturer and
supplier of Doxil®. As of February 2012, approximately 94 patients of the 110 patients had been enrolled in the
study. We are currently in the process of compiling and performing verification procedures on the preliminary interim results from the patients enrolled to date in this study. Results from this study and communication with government health
authorities in both the U.S. and E.U. will guide our future development and regulatory strategy for NKTR-102 in ovarian cancer. 
Ovarian cancer is also a significant health problem for women worldwide. According to the American Cancer Society, in 2012, there will be
an estimated 22,280 new cases of ovarian cancer diagnosed and an estimated 15,500 deaths from ovarian cancer in the United States. Ovarian cancer is the ninth most common cancer among women, excluding non-melanoma skin cancers. It ranks fifth in
cancer deaths among women, accounting for more deaths than any other cancer of the female reproductive system. Historically, less than 40% of women with ovarian cancer are cured. According to the World Health Organization, about 230,000 women
globally are diagnosed each year with ovarian cancer.  A NKTR-102 Phase 2 clinical study was initiated in June 2008 to
evaluate the efficacy and safety of NKTR-102 monotherapy versus irinotecan in second-line metastatic colorectal cancer patients with the KRAS mutant gene. The primary endpoint of the Phase 2 clinical study in metastatic colorectal cancer is
progression-free survival as compared to standard irinotecan monotherapy. According to recent data presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology in 2010, it is estimated that up to 43.5% of colorectal cancer cases have this mutation in the
KRAS gene and do not respond to EGFR-inhibitors, such as cetuximab. The Phase 2 clinical study is designed to enroll 174 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The study is still enrolling and patient enrollment in this study has been
challenging due to the fact that the comparator arm of this study, single-agent irinotecan, is not the common standard of care for second line metastatic colorectal therapy in the U.S. or EU. In June 2010, we started a Phase 1 dose-escalation
clinical study designed to enroll up to approximately 40 patients to evaluate NKTR-102 in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)/leucovorin in refractory solid tumor cancers 
  13 


Table of Contents

and the study is still ongoing. The chemotherapy agent 5-FU is currently used as a part of a combination treatment regimen for colorectal cancer in combination with irinotecan, which is also
known as the FOLFIRI regimen.  Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer and the second leading cause of
cancer death in the U.S. According to the American Cancer Society, nearly 141,210 new cases of colon and rectal cancer were diagnosed in the U.S. in 2011, and about 49,000 people will die annually of the disease. Worldwide, over
1.2 million people are diagnosed annually with colorectal cancer. Most metastatic colorectal cancer patients have recurrence within two years and require retreatment with chemotherapy regimens. The majority of metastatic colorectal cancer
patients receive irinotecan-based regimens, primarily in combination with 5-FU/leucovorin. Colorectal cancer is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths in the United States when men and women are considered separately, and the second
leading cause when both sexes are combined. It was expected to cause about 49,380 deaths (29,001 in men and 20,379 in women) during 2011 in the U.S. Worldwide, according to the World Health Organization, there are 690,000 deaths annually from
colorectal cancers.  BAY41-6551 (Amikacin Inhale, formerly NKTR-061), Agreement with Bayer Healthcare LLC
 In August 2007, we entered into a co-development, license and co-promotion agreement with Bayer Healthcare LLC (Bayer)
to develop a specially-formulated Amikacin (BAY41-6551, Amikacin Inhale, formerly called NKTR-061). Under the terms of the agreement, Bayer is responsible for most future clinical development and commercialization costs, all activities to support
worldwide regulatory filings, approvals and related activities, further development of formulated Amikacin and final product packaging for BAY41-6551. We are responsible for all future development of the nebulizer device through the completion of
Phase 3 clinical studies and for clinical and commercial manufacturing and supply of the nebulizer device. We have engaged third party contract manufacturers to perform our device manufacturing obligations for this program. We are entitled to up to
$60.0 million in development milestone payments as well as sales milestone payments upon achievement of certain annual sales targets. We are also entitled to royalties based on annual worldwide net sales of BAY41-6551. Our right to receive these
royalties in any particular country will expire upon the later of ten years after the first commercial sale of the product in that country or the expiration of certain patent rights in that particular country, subject to certain exceptions. The
agreement expires in relation to a particular country upon the expiration of all royalty and payment obligations between the parties related to such country. Subject to termination fee payment obligations, Bayer also has the right to terminate the
agreement for convenience. In addition, the agreement may also be terminated by either party for certain product safety concerns, the product’s failure to meet certain minimum commercial profile requirements or uncured material breaches by the
other party.  BAY41-6551 is in clinical development to treat Gram-negative pneumonias, including hospital-acquired (HAP),
healthcare-associated, and ventilator-associated pneumonias. Gram-negative pneumonias are often the result of complications of other patient conditions or surgeries. Gram-negative pneumonias carry a mortality risk that can exceed 50% in
mechanically-ventilated patients and accounts for a substantial proportion of the pneumonias in intensive care units today. BAY41-6551 is designed to be an adjunctive therapy to the current antibiotic therapies administered intravenously as standard
of care. The targeted aerosol delivery platform in BAY41-6551 delivers the antimicrobial agent directly to the site of infection in the lungs. This drug candidate can be integrated with conventional mechanical ventilators or used as a hand-held
‘off-vent’ device for patients no longer requiring breathing assistance. This drug candidate has completed Phase 2 clinical development. In 2011, Bayer received agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on the design of
the Phase 3 clinical studies of BAY41-6551 under the Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) process that is intended to support the submission of a New Drug Application (NDA) if the Phase 3 clinical study commences and is successful. 
Bayer and Nektar have been working together to prepare for Phase 3 clinical studies of BAY41-6551 following the consummation of the
collaboration in August 2007. The program is significantly behind schedule. The reason for this is that Bayer and Nektar decided to finalize the design of the device for commercial 
  14 


Table of Contents

manufacturing prior to initiating Phase 3 clinical development with the objective of commencing Phase 3 clinical trials as soon as possible following completion of this work. Please refer to
Item 1A, Risk Factors, “If we or our partners are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in quantities and at costs that are commercially feasible, we may fail to meet our contractual obligations or our proprietary and partnered
product candidates may experience clinical delays or constrained commercial supply which could significantly harm our business.”  NKTR-181 (mu-opioid analgesic molecule for chronic pain)  NKTR-181
is an orally-available mu-opioid drug candidate in development as a long-acting analgesic to treat chronic pain. NKTR-181 is designed with the objective to address the abuse liability and serious central nervous system (CNS) side effects associated
with current opioid therapies. NKTR-181 is a novel mu-opioid analgesic molecule created using Nektar’s proprietary polymer conjugate technology, which provides it with a long-acting profile and slows its entry into the CNS. Its potential
differentiating properties are inherent to the design of the new molecule and as a new molecular structure, NKTR-181 does not rely on a formulation approach to prevent its conversion into a more abusable form of an opioid. 
In 2011, we completed two separate Phase 1 clinical studies of NKTR-181. The first study, a single-ascending dose study of NKTR-181
evaluated the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of a 50-fold range of single oral doses of NKTR-181 in 84 healthy subjects at up to 500 mg dose levels. The second study, a multiple-ascending dose study of NKTR-181 evaluated the pharmacokinetics
and pharmacodynamics of four separate dose cohorts of NKTR-181 (100 mg – 400 mg) administered orally twice-daily. The study enrolled a total of 60 healthy subjects over an eight-day treatment period, and included a placebo arm (n=3) for each
dose cohort. Measurements in the study include plasma concentrations-time profiles, reductions in pupil diameter, and a cold pressor test, a model of pain used in healthy subjects to measure central analgesic activity. In this multiple dose Phase 1
clinical study, NKTR-181 exhibited a sustained analgesic response, which we believe supports its future development as a twice-daily oral tablet for the treatment of chronic pain conditions. Pupillometry data from the study demonstrated that
NKTR-181’s centrally-mediated opioid effects are dose-dependent and indicates that the molecule enters the brain slowly, which has the potential to reduce the euphoria and other CNS side effects that are associated with current opioids.
NKTR-181 was also well-tolerated at all doses evaluated in both studies. The Phase 2 clinical program is planned to begin in mid-2012 and will include a randomized, double-blind, efficacy and safety study of NKTR-181 as compared to placebo in
patients with chronic pain.  According to a 2011 report from the National Academy of Sciences, chronic pain conditions, such
as osteoarthritis, back pain and cancer pain, affect at least 126 million adults in the U.S. annually and contribute to over $100 billion a year in lost productivity. Opioids are considered to be the most effective therapeutic option for pain.
However, opioids cause significant problems for physicians and patients because of their serious side effects such as respiratory depression and sedation, as well as the risks they pose for addiction, abuse, misuse, and diversion. The FDA has cited
prescription opioid analgesics as being at the center of a major public health crisis of addiction, misuse, abuse, overdose and death. A 2010 report from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) notes that emergency room visits tied to
the abuse of prescription painkillers is at an all-time high, having increased 111 percent over a 5-year period. 
NKTR-192 (mu-opioid analgesic molecule for acute pain) 
NKTR-192 is an orally-available mu-opioid analgesic molecule in preclinical development that is intended to be a short-acting analgesic to
treat acute pain. NKTR-192 is also designed to address the abuse liability and serious central nervous system (CNS) side effects associated with current opioid therapies. NKTR-192 is also designed to have slow entry into the CNS. Its differentiating
properties are inherent to the design of the new molecule and as a new molecular structure, NKTR-192 does not rely on a formulation approach to prevent its conversion into a more abusable form of an opioid. NKTR-192 completed preclinical work in
2011 and we plan to begin a Phase 1 clinical study in 2012 following submission of an investigational new drug application (IND) 
  15 


Table of Contents

and the expiration or completion of the FDA review period and our resolution of any issues raised by the FDA, if any, prior to the IND becoming effective. 
Overview of Select Technology Licensing Collaborations and Programs  We have a number of product candidates in clinical development and approved products in collaboration with our partners that use our technology or involve rights over which we have patents or other
proprietary intellectual property. In a typical collaboration involving our PEGylation technology, we license our proprietary intellectual property related to our PEGylation technology or proprietary conjugated drug molecules in consideration for
upfront payments, development milestone payments and royalties from sales of the resulting commercial product as well as sales milestones. In certain cases, we also manufacture and supply our proprietary PEGylation materials to our partners.
 Peginesatide, Agreement with Affymax, Inc. 
In April 2004, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with Affymax, Inc. (Affymax), under which we granted Affymax
a worldwide, non-exclusive license to certain of our proprietary PEGylation technology to develop, manufacture and commercialize peginesatide. Peginesatide is a synthetic PEGylated peptidic compound that binds to and stimulates the erythropoietin
receptor and thus acts as an erythropoietin stimulating agent (ESA). The compound was discovered by Affymax and is being co-developed by Affymax and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. In May 2011, Affymax filed a NDA with the FDA for
peginesatide to treat anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on dialysis. If approved, peginesatide may be the first once-monthly ESA for anemia in CKD for dialysis patients available in the U.S. In December 2011, the FDA Oncologic
Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) voted 15 to 1, with 1 abstention, that peginesatide demonstrated a favorable benefit/risk profile for use in the treatment of dialysis patients with anemia due to CKD. While the FDA is not bound by the recommendation
of ODAC, its guidance will be considered by the FDA in its review of the NDA. The scheduled Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) date for peginesatide is March 27, 2012. The FDA endeavors to complete its review of NDAs by the PDUFA date but
does not always do so and the FDA’s decision regarding a NDA can be delayed significantly beyond the original PDUFA date through various regulatory delays or regulatory actions. 
We currently manufacture our proprietary PEGylation materials for Affymax on a fixed price basis subject to annual adjustments. Affymax
has an option to convert this manufacturing pricing arrangement to cost plus at any time prior to the date the NDA for peginesatide is submitted to the FDA. In addition, Affymax is responsible for all clinical development, regulatory and
commercialization expenses and we are entitled to development milestones and royalties on net sales of peginesatide. We will share a portion of our future royalty payments with Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Our right to receive royalties in any
particular country will expire upon the later of ten years after the first commercial sale of the product in that country or the expiration of patent rights in that particular country. The agreement expires on a country-by-country basis upon the
expiration of Affymax’s royalty obligations. The agreement may also be terminated by either party for the other party’s continued material breach after expiration of a cure period or by us in the event that Affymax challenges the validity
or enforceability of any patent licensed to them under the agreement.  LEVADEX®, Agreement with MAP Pharmaceuticals 
In June 2004, we entered into a license agreement with MAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (MAP) which includes a worldwide,
exclusive license, to certain of our patents and other intellectual property rights to develop and commercialize a formulation of dihydroergotamine for administration to patients via the pulmonary or nasal delivery route. In 2006, we amended and
restated this agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, we have the right to receive certain milestone payments based on development criteria that are solely the responsibility of MAP and royalties based on net sales of LEVADEX®. Our right to receive royalties in any particular country will expire upon the later of (i) 10 years after
first commercial sale in that country, (ii) the date upon which the 
  16 


Table of Contents

licensed know-how becomes known to the general public, and (iii) expiration of certain patent claims, each on a country-by-country basis. Either party may terminate the agreement upon a
material, uncured default of the other party. On May 26, 2011, MAP submitted a NDA to the FDA for LEVADEX and the PDUFA date is March 26, 2012. The FDA endeavors to complete its review of NDAs by the PDUFA date but does not always do so
and the FDA’s decision regarding a NDA can be delayed significantly beyond the original PDUFA date through various regulatory delays or regulatory actions.  BAX 855 and Long-Acting Therapies for Hemophilia A and Hemophilia B, Agreement with Subsidiaries of Baxter International 
In September 2005, we entered into an exclusive research, development, license, manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxter Healthcare
SA and Baxter Healthcare Corporation (Baxter) to develop products with an extended half-life for the treatment and prophylaxis of Hemophilia A patients using our proprietary PEGylation technology. The first product in this collaboration, BAX 855, is
a longer-acting (PEGylated) form of a full-length recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) protein which entered Phase 1 clinical development in late 2011. BAX 855 uses Nektar’s proprietary PEGylation technology and is also based on Baxter’s
ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant) Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] full-length rFVIII molecule and plasma/albumin-free (PAF) manufacturing process. The Phase 1 trial is a prospective, open-label study that will assess the safety, tolerability
and pharmacokinetics of BAX 855 in previously-treated patients aged 12 years or older with severe hemophilia A. When used for prophylaxis, Baxter’s ADVATE requires patients to infuse every two to three days to reduce the occurrence of bleeding
episodes. This Phase 1 clinical study is the first step in assessing whether BAX 855 can be infused less frequently. If the Phase 1 clinical study is successful, Baxter plans to initiate Phase 3 studies for the program. 
In December 2007, we expanded our agreement with Baxter to include the license of our PEGylation technology and proprietary PEGylation
methods with the potential to improve the half-life of any future drug products Baxter may develop for the treatment and prophylaxis of Hemophilia B patients. Under the terms of the agreement with Baxter, we are entitled to research and development
funding, and we manufacture our proprietary PEGylation materials for Baxter on a cost plus basis. Baxter is responsible for all clinical development, regulatory, and commercialization expenses. In relation to Hemophilia A, we are entitled to up to
$84.0 million in total development and sales milestone payments of which $8.5 million has been paid to date, as well as royalties on net sales varying by product and country of sale. Our right to receive these royalties in any particular country
will expire upon the later of ten years after the first commercial sale of the product in that country or the expiration of patent rights in certain designated countries or in that particular country. 
In relation to Hemophilia B and other blood-clotting factor diseases, we are entitled to up to $44.0 million in development and sales
milestone payments of which $6.0 million has been paid to date, as well as royalties on net sales varying by product and country of sale. Our right to receive these royalties in any particular country will expire upon the later of twelve years after
the first commercial sale of the product in that country or the expiration of patent rights in certain designated countries or in that particular country. The agreement expires in relation to a particular product and country upon the expiration of
all of Baxter’s royalty obligations related to such product and country. The agreement may also be terminated by either party for the other party’s material breach or insolvency, provided that such other party has been given a chance to
cure or remedy such breach or insolvency. Subject to certain limitations as to time, and possible termination fee payment obligations, Baxter also has the right to terminate the agreement for convenience. We have the right to terminate the agreement
or convert Baxter’s license from exclusive to non-exclusive in the event Baxter fails to comply with certain diligence obligations.  Cipro Inhale, Agreement with Bayer Schering Pharma AG Assigned to Novartis as of December 31, 2008  We were a party to a collaborative research, development and commercialization agreement with Bayer Schering Pharma AG related to the development of an inhaled powder formulation of Ciprofloxacin for the

  17 


Table of Contents

treatment of chronic lung infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis patients. Cipro Inhale has completed Phase 2 clinical development with Bayer for the treatment of
chronic lung infections. As of December 31, 2008, we assigned the agreement to Novartis Pharma AG in connection with the closing of the pulmonary asset sale transaction. We maintain the right to receive certain potential royalties in the future
based on net product sales if Cipro Inhale receives regulatory approval and is successfully commercialized.  Overview of Select Licensing
Partnerships for Approved Products  Neulasta®, Agreement with Amgen, Inc.  In July
1995, we entered into a non-exclusive supply and license agreement (1995 Agreement) with Amgen, Inc., pursuant to which we licensed our proprietary PEGylation technology to be used in the development and manufacture of Neulasta. Neulasta selectively
stimulates the production of neutrophils that are depleted by cytotoxic chemotherapy, a condition called neutropenia that makes it more difficult for the body to fight infections. On October 29, 2010, we amended and restated the 1995 Agreement
by entering into a supply, dedicated suite and manufacturing guarantee agreement (2010 Agreement) and an amended and restated license agreement with Amgen Inc. and Amgen Manufacturing., Limited (together referred to as Amgen). Under the terms of the
2010 Agreement, we guarantee the manufacture and supply of our proprietary PEGylation materials (Polymer Materials) to Amgen in an existing manufacturing suite to be used exclusively for the manufacture of Polymer Materials for Amgen in our
manufacturing facility in Huntsville, Alabama. This supply arrangement is on a non-exclusive basis (other than the use of the manufacturing suite and certain equipment) whereby we are free to manufacture and supply the Polymer Materials to any other
third party and Amgen is free to procure the Polymer Materials from any other third party. Under the terms of the 2010 Agreement, we received a $50.0 million upfront payment in return for guaranteeing supply of certain quantities of Polymer
Materials to Amgen and the Additional Rights described below, and Amgen will pay manufacturing fees calculated based on fixed and variable components applicable to the Polymer Materials ordered by Amgen and delivered by us. Amgen has no minimum
purchase commitments. If quantities of the Polymer Materials ordered by Amgen exceed specified quantities (with each specified quantity representing a small portion of the quantity that we historically supplied to Amgen), significant additional
payments become payable to us in return for guaranteeing supply of additional quantities of the Polymer Materials.  The term
of the Agreement runs through October 29, 2020. In the event we become subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, we cease to own or control the manufacturing facility in Huntsville, Alabama, we fail to manufacture and supply the Polymer
Materials or certain other events occur, Amgen or its designated third party will have the right to elect, among certain other options, to take title to the dedicated equipment and access the manufacturing facility to operate the manufacturing suite
solely for the purpose of manufacturing the Polymer Materials (Additional Rights). Amgen may terminate the 2010 Agreement for convenience or due to an uncured material default by us. Either party may terminate the 2010 Agreement in the event of
insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party.  PEGASYS®, Agreement with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
In February 1997, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (Roche), under which we granted Roche a worldwide, exclusive license to use certain intellectual property related to our PEGylation materials to manufacture and commercialize a certain class of products, of which PEGASYS
is the only product currently commercialized. PEGASYS is approved in the U.S., E.U. and other countries for the treatment of Hepatitis C and is designed to help the patient’s immune system fight the Hepatitis C virus. As a result of Roche
exercising a license extension option in December 2009, beginning in 2010 Roche has the right to manufacture all of its requirements for our proprietary PEGylation materials for PEGASYS and we supply raw materials or perform additional
manufacturing, if any, only on a back-up basis. The agreement expires on the later of January 10, 2015 or the expiration of our last relevant patent containing a valid claim. 
  18 


Table of Contents
Somavert®, Agreement with Pfizer, Inc.  In
January 2000, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with Sensus Drug Development Corporation (subsequently acquired by Pharmacia Corp. in 2001 and then acquired by Pfizer, Inc. in 2003), for the PEGylation of Somavert
(pegvisomant), a human growth hormone receptor antagonist for the treatment of acromegaly. We currently manufacture our proprietary PEGylation reagent for Pfizer on a price per gram basis. The agreement expires on the later of ten years from the
grant of first marketing authorization in the designated territory, which occurred in March 2003, or the expiration of our last relevant patent containing a valid claim. In addition, Pfizer may terminate the agreement if marketing authorization is
withdrawn or marketing is no longer feasible due to certain circumstances, and either party may terminate for cause if certain conditions are met.  PEG-Intron®, Agreement with Merck (through its acquisition of
Schering-Plough Corporation)  In February 2000, we entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with
Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering) for the manufacture and supply of our proprietary PEGylation materials to be used by Schering in production of a pegylated recombinant human interferon-alpha (PEG-Intron). PEG-Intron is a treatment for patients
with Hepatitis C. Schering was acquired by and become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. We currently manufacture our proprietary PEGylation materials for Schering on a price per gram basis. In December 2010, the parties amended
the manufacturing and supply agreement to provide for a transition plan to an alternative manufacturer and extension of the term through the successful manufacturing transition or December 31, 2018 at the latest. The amended agreement provided
for a one-time payment and milestone payments as well as increased pricing for any future manufacturing performed by us.  Macugen®, Agreement with Eyetech, Inc. 
In 2002, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with Eyetech, Inc. (Eyetech), pursuant to which
we license certain intellectual property related to our proprietary PEGylation technology for the development and commercialization of Macugen®, a PEGylated anti-vascular endothelial growth factor aptamer currently approved in the U.S. and E.U. for age-related macular degeneration. We currently
manufacture our proprietary PEGylation materials for Eyetech on a price per gram basis. Under the terms of the agreement, we will receive royalties on net product sales in any particular country for the longer of ten years from the date of the first
commercial sale of the product in that country or the duration of patent coverage. We share a portion of the payments received under this agreement with Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The agreement expires upon the expiration of our last relevant
patent containing a valid claim. In addition, Eyetech may terminate the agreement if marketing authorization is withdrawn or marketing is no longer feasible due to certain circumstances, and either party may terminate for cause if certain conditions
are met.  CIMZIA®, Agreement with UCB Pharma  In December 2000, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement for CIMZIA® (certolizumab pegol) with Celltech Chiroscience Ltd., which was acquired by UCB Pharma (UCB) in 2004. Under the terms of the agreement, UCB is responsible for all
clinical development, regulatory, and commercialization expenses. We have the right to receive manufacturing revenue on the basis of a fixed price per gram. We were also entitled to receive royalties on net sales of the CIMZIA® product for the longer of ten years from the first commercial sale of the product anywhere in the world or the
expiration of patent rights in a particular country. In February 2012, we sold our rights to receive royalties on future worldwide net sales of CIMZIA® effective as of January 1, 2012 until the agreement with UCB is terminated or expires. This sale is further discussed in Note 14 of Item 8, Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data. We share a portion of the payments we receive from UCB with Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The agreement expires upon the expiration of all of UCB’s royalty obligations, provided that the agreement can be
extended for successive two year renewal 
  19 


Table of Contents

periods upon mutual agreement of the parties. In addition, UCB may terminate the agreement should it cease the development and marketing of
CIMZIA® and either party may terminate for cause under certain conditions. 
MIRCERA® (C.E.R.A.) (Continuous Erythropoietin Receptor Activator), Agreement with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
In December 2000, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (Roche), which was amended and restated in its entirety in December 2005. Pursuant to the agreement, we license our intellectual property related to our proprietary PEGylation materials for the manufacture and
commercialization of Roche’s MIRCERA® product. As of the end of 2006, we were no longer required to
manufacture and supply our proprietary PEGylation materials for MIRCERA®, however, in February 2012, we entered
into a new supply arrangement with Roche under which we agreed to resume manufacture of our proprietary PEGylation materials for MIRCERA on a non-exclusive basis for a specified time period. MIRCERA® is a novel continuous erythropoietin receptor activator indicated for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic kidney disease in patients on dialysis and
patients not on dialysis. We were entitled to receive royalties on net sales of the MIRCERA® product in any
particular country for the longer of ten years from the first commercial sale of the product in that country or the expiration of patent rights in that particular country. In February 2012, we sold our rights to receive royalties on future worldwide
net sales of MIRCERA® effective as of January 1, 2012 until the agreement with Roche is terminated or
expires. This sale is further discussed in Note 14 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The agreement expires upon the expiration of all of Roche’s royalty obligations, unless earlier terminated by Roche for
convenience or by either party for cause under certain conditions.  Significant Developments in our Business that Occurred in 2008
 Exit from the Inhaled Insulin Programs 
In 1995, we entered into a collaborative development and licensing agreement with Pfizer to develop and market Exubera® and, in 2006 and 2007, we entered into a series of interim letter agreements with Pfizer to develop a next
generation form of dry powder inhaled insulin and proprietary inhaler device, also known as NGI. In January 2006, Exubera received marketing approval in the U.S. and EU for the treatment of adults with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Under the
collaborative development and licensing agreement, Pfizer had sole responsibility for marketing and selling Exubera. We performed all of the manufacturing of the Exubera dry powder insulin, and we supplied Pfizer with the Exubera inhalers through
third party contract manufacturers (Bespak Europe Ltd. and Tech Group North America, Inc.). We recorded no revenue from Pfizer related to these activities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, and 2008. 
On October 18, 2007, Pfizer announced that it was exiting the Exubera business and gave notice of termination under our
collaborative development and licensing agreement. On November 9, 2007, we entered into a termination agreement and mutual release with Pfizer. Under this agreement we received a one-time payment of $135.0 million in November 2007 from
Pfizer in satisfaction of all outstanding contractual obligations under our then-existing agreements relating to Exubera and NGI. All agreements between Pfizer and us related to Exubera and NGI, other than the termination agreement and mutual
release and a related interim Exubera manufacturing maintenance letter, terminated on November 9, 2007. In February 2008, we entered into a termination agreement with Bespak and Tech Group pursuant to which we paid an aggregate of
$40.2 million in satisfaction of outstanding accounts payable and termination costs and expenses that were due under the Exubera inhaler contract manufacturing agreement. We also entered into a maintenance agreement with both Pfizer and Tech
Group to preserve key personnel and manufacturing capacity to support potential future Exubera inhaler manufacturing if we found a new partner for the inhaled insulin program.  On April 9, 2008, we announced that we had ceased all negotiations with potential partners for Exubera and NGI as a result of new data analysis from ongoing clinical trials conducted by Pfizer which
indicated an increase in the number of new cases of lung cancer in Exubera patients who were former smokers as compared to patients 
  20 


Table of Contents

in the control group who were not former smokers. In April 2008, we ceased all spending associated with maintaining Exubera manufacturing capacity and any further NGI development, including, but
not limited to, terminating the Exubera manufacturing capacity maintenance arrangements with Pfizer and Tech Group. 
Asset Sale to Novartis  On December 31, 2008, we completed the sale of certain assets related to our pulmonary business, associated technology and intellectual property to Novartis Pharma AG and Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation (together referred to as Novartis) for a purchase price of $115.0 million in cash (Novartis Pulmonary Asset Sale). Under the terms of the transaction, we transferred to Novartis certain assets and obligations related to our
pulmonary technology, development and manufacturing operations including:   


 
•
 
 dry powder and liquid pulmonary technology platform including but not limited to our pulmonary inhalation devices, formulation technology,
manufacturing technology and related intellectual property;   


 
•
 
 capital equipment, information systems and facility lease obligations for our pulmonary development and manufacturing facility in San Carlos,
California;   


 
•
 
 manufacturing and associated development services payments for the Cipro Inhale program; 
 


 
•
 
 manufacturing and royalty rights to the Tobramycin Inhalation Powder (TIP) program through the termination of our collaboration agreement with
Novartis;   


 
•
 
 certain other interests that we had in two private companies; and 
 


 
•
 
 approximately 140 of our personnel primarily dedicated to our pulmonary technology, development programs, and manufacturing operations.
 In addition, we retained all of our rights to BAY41-6551, partnered with Bayer Healthcare LLC, certain
royalty rights for the Cipro Inhale development program partnered with Bayer Schering Pharma AG, and certain intellectual property rights specific to inhaled insulin.  In connection with the Novartis Pulmonary Asset Sale, we also entered into an Exclusive License Agreement with Novartis Pharma. Pursuant to the Exclusive License Agreement, Novartis Pharma granted back to
us an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, non-transferable, royalty-free and worldwide license under certain specific patent rights and other related intellectual property rights acquired by Novartis Pharma from Nektar in the transaction, as well as
certain improvements or modifications thereto that are made by Novartis Pharma after the closing. Certain of such patent rights and other related intellectual property rights relate to our development program for inhaled vancomycin or are necessary
for us to satisfy certain of our continuing contractual obligations to third parties, including in connection with development, manufacture, sale, and commercialization activities related to BAY41-6551. We also entered into a service agreement
pursuant to which we have subcontracted to Novartis certain services to be performed related to our partnered program for BAY41-6551 and a transition services agreement pursuant to which Novartis and we will provide each other with specified
services for limited time periods following the closing of the Novartis Pulmonary Asset Sale to facilitate the transition of the acquired assets and business from us to Novartis.  Government Regulation  The research and development, clinical testing,
manufacture and marketing of products using our technologies are subject to regulation by the FDA and by comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate, among other
things, research and development activities and the testing (in vitro, in animals, and in human clinical trials), manufacture, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, approval, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. 
The approval process required by the FDA before a product using any of our technologies may be marketed in the U.S. depends on
whether the chemical composition of the product has previously been approved for use in 
  21 


Table of Contents

other dosage forms. If the product is a new chemical entity that has not been previously approved, the process includes the following: 
 


 
•
 
 extensive preclinical laboratory and animal testing;   


 
•
 
 submission of an Investigational New Drug application (IND) prior to commencing clinical trials; 
 


 
•
 
 adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for the intended indication; and
  


 
•
 
 submission to the FDA of an NDA for approval of a drug, a BLA for approval of a biological product or a Premarket Approval Application (PMA) or
Premarket Notification 510(k) for a medical device product (a 510(k)).  If the active chemical ingredient
has been previously approved by the FDA, the approval process is similar, except that certain preclinical tests relating to systemic toxicity normally required for the IND and NDA or BLA may not be necessary if the company has a right of reference
to such data or is eligible for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or the biosimilars provisions of the Public Health Services Act. 
Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and animal studies to assess the safety and efficacy of the product
and its chosen formulation. Preclinical safety tests must be conducted by laboratories that comply with FDA good laboratory practices (GLP) regulations. The results of the preclinical tests for drugs, biological products and combination products
subject to the primary jurisdiction of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) or Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) are submitted to the FDA as part of the IND and are reviewed by the FDA before clinical
trials can begin. Clinical trials may begin 30 days after receipt of the IND by the FDA, unless the FDA raises objections or requires clarification within that period.  Clinical trials involve the administration of the drug to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified, identified medical investigator according to a protocol submitted in the IND
for FDA review. Drug products to be used in clinical trials must be manufactured according to current good manufacturing practices (cGMP). Clinical trials are conducted in accordance with protocols that detail the objectives of the study and the
parameters to be used to monitor participant safety and product efficacy as well as other criteria to be evaluated in the study. Each protocol is submitted to the FDA in the IND. 
Apart from the IND process described above, each clinical study must be reviewed by an independent Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
the IRB must be kept current with respect to the status of the clinical study. The IRB considers, among other things, ethical factors, the potential risks to subjects participating in the trial and the possible liability to the institution where the
trial is conducted. The IRB also reviews and approves the informed consent form to be signed by the trial participants and any significant changes in the clinical study.  Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases. Phase 1 involves the initial introduction of the drug into healthy human subjects (in most cases) and the product generally is tested
for tolerability, pharmacokinetics, absorption, metabolism and excretion. Phase 2 involves studies in a limited patient population to:   


 
•
 
 determine the preliminary efficacy of the product for specific targeted indications; 
 


 
•
 
 determine dosage and regimen of administration; and 
 


 
•
 
 identify possible adverse effects and safety risks.  If Phase 2 trials demonstrate that a product appears to be effective and to have an acceptable safety profile, Phase 3 trials are undertaken to evaluate the further clinical efficacy and safety of the
drug and formulation 
  22 


Table of Contents

within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites and in large enough trials to provide statistical proof of efficacy and tolerability. The FDA, the clinical
trial sponsor, the investigators or the IRB may suspend clinical trials at any time if any one of them believes that study participants are being subjected to an unacceptable health risk. In some cases, the FDA and the drug sponsor may determine
that Phase 2 trials are not needed prior to entering Phase 3 trials.  Following a series of formal meetings and communications
between the drug sponsor and the regulatory agencies, the results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies are submitted to the FDA as an NDA or BLA for approval of the marketing and commercial shipment of the drug product.
The FDA may deny approval if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical or pharmaceutical testing or requirements. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA or BLA does not
satisfy all of the criteria for approval. Additionally, the approved labeling may narrowly limit the conditions of use of the product, including the intended uses, or impose warnings, precautions or contraindications which could significantly limit
the potential market for the product. Further, as a condition of approval, the FDA may impose post-market surveillance, or Phase 4, studies or risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. Product approvals, once obtained, may be withdrawn if
compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if safety concerns arise after the product reaches the market. The FDA may require additional post-marketing clinical testing and pharmacovigilance programs to monitor the effect of drug
products that have been commercialized and has the power to prevent or limit future marketing of the product based on the results of such programs. After approval, there are ongoing reporting obligations concerning adverse reactions associated with
the product, including expedited reports for serious and unexpected adverse events.  Each manufacturing establishment
producing drug product for the U.S. market must be registered with the FDA and typically is inspected by the FDA prior to NDA or BLA approval of a drug product manufactured by such establishment. Establishments handling controlled substances
must also be licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. Manufacturing establishments of U.S. marketed products are subject to inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP and other U.S. regulatory requirements. They are
also subject to U.S. federal, state, and local regulations regarding workplace safety, environmental protection and hazardous and controlled substance controls, among others. 
A number of the drugs we are developing are already approved for marketing by the FDA in another form or using another delivery system.
We believe that, when working with drugs approved in other forms, the approval process for products using our alternative drug delivery or formulation technologies may involve less risk and require fewer tests than new chemical entities do. However,
we expect that our formulations will often use excipients not currently approved for use. Use of these excipients will require additional toxicological testing that may increase the costs of, or length of time needed to, gain regulatory approval. In
addition, as they relate to our products, regulatory procedures may change as regulators gain relevant experience, and any such changes may delay or increase the cost of regulatory approvals. 
For product candidates currently under development utilizing pulmonary technology, the pulmonary inhaler devices are considered to be
part of a drug and device combination for deep lung delivery of each specific molecule. The FDA will make a determination as to the most appropriate center and division within the agency that will assume primary responsibility for the review of the
applicable applications, which would consist of an IND and an NDA or BLA where CDER or CBER are determined to have primary jurisdiction or an investigational device exemption application and PMA or 510(k) where the Center for Devices and
Radiological Health (CDRH) is determined to have primary jurisdiction. In the case of our product candidates, CDER in consultation with CDRH could be involved in the review. The assessment of jurisdiction within the FDA is based upon the primary
mode of action of the drug or the location of the specific expertise in one of the centers.  Where CDRH is determined to have
primary jurisdiction over a product, 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is required. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes — Class I, Class II, or Class III — depending on the degree of risk
associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and 
  23 


Table of Contents

effectiveness. Devices deemed to pose lower risks are placed in either Class I or II, which requires the manufacturer to submit to the FDA a Premarket Notification requesting permission to
commercially distribute the device. This process is known as 510(k) clearance. Some low risk devices are exempted from this requirement. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable
devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device are placed in Class III, requiring PMA approval.  To date, our partners have generally been responsible for clinical and regulatory approval procedures, but we may participate in this process by submitting to the FDA a drug master file developed and
maintained by us which contains data concerning the manufacturing processes for the inhaler device or drug. For our proprietary products, we prepare and submit an IND and are responsible for additional clinical and regulatory procedures for product
candidates being developed under an IND. The clinical and manufacturing, development and regulatory review and approval process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Our ability to manufacture and
market products, whether developed by us or under collaboration agreements, ultimately depends upon the completion of satisfactory clinical trials and success in obtaining marketing approvals from the FDA and equivalent foreign health authorities.
 Sales of our products outside the U.S. are subject to local regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and
marketing approval for drugs. Such requirements vary widely from country to country.  In the U.S., under the Orphan Drug Act,
the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. The company that obtains the first FDA approval
for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years. In addition, the Orphan Drug Act provides for protocol assistance, tax credits, research
grants, and exclusions from user fees for sponsors of orphan products. Once a product receives orphan drug exclusivity, a second product that is considered to be the same drug for the same indication may be approved during the exclusivity period
only if the second product is shown to be “clinically superior” to the original orphan drug in that it is more effective, safer or otherwise makes a “major contribution to patient care” or the holder of exclusive approval cannot
assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the orphan drug to meet the needs of patients with the disease or condition for which the drug was designated. Similar incentives also are available for orphan drugs in the E.U. 
In the U.S., the FDA may grant Fast Track designation to a product candidate, which allows the FDA to expedite the review of new drugs
that are intended for serious or life-threatening conditions and that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. An important feature of Fast Track designation is that it emphasizes the critical nature of close, early communication
between the FDA and the sponsor company to improve the efficiency of product development.  Patents and Proprietary Rights 
We invest a significant portion of our resources in the creation and development of new drug compounds that serve unmet needs in the
treatment of patients. In doing so, we create intellectual property. As part of our strategy to secure our intellectual property created by these efforts, we routinely apply for patents, rely on trade secret protection, and enter into contractual
obligations with third parties. When appropriate, we will defend our intellectual property, taking any and all legal remedies available to us, including, for example, asserting patent infringement, trade secret misappropriation and breach of
contract claims. As of January 1, 2012, we owned greater than 120 U.S. and 420 foreign patents. Currently, we have over approximately 110 patent applications pending in the U.S. and 550 pending in other countries. 
A focus area of our current drug creation and development efforts centers on our innovations in and improvements to our PEGylation and
advanced polymer conjugate technology platforms. In this area, our patent 
  24 


Table of Contents

portfolio contains patents and patent applications that encompass our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technology platforms, some of which we acquired in our acquisition of Shearwater
Corporation in June 2001. More specifically, our patents and patent applications cover polymer architecture, drug conjugates, formulations, methods of making polymers and polymer conjugates, and methods of administering polymer conjugates. Our
patent strategy is to file patent applications on innovations and improvements to cover a significant majority of the major pharmaceutical markets in the world. Generally, patents have a term of twenty years from the earliest priority date (assuming
all maintenance fees are paid). In some instances, patent terms can be increased or decreased, depending on the laws and regulations of the country or jurisdiction that issued the patent. 
In January 2002, we entered into a Cross-License and Option Agreement with Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., pursuant to which we and Enzon
provided certain licenses to selected portions of each party’s PEGylation patent portfolio. In certain cases, we have the option to license certain of Enzon’s PEGylation patents for use in our proprietary products or for sublicenses to
third parties in each case in exchange for payments to Enzon based on manufacturing profits, revenue share or royalties on net sales if a designated product candidate is approved in one or more markets. 
In connection with the Novartis Pulmonary Asset Sale, as of December 31, 2008, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with
Novartis Pharma. Pursuant to the exclusive license agreement, Novartis Pharma grants back to us an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free and worldwide license under certain specific patent rights and other related intellectual property
rights acquired by Novartis from us in the Novartis Pulmonary Asset Sale, as well as certain improvements or modifications thereto that are made by Novartis. Certain of such patent rights and other related intellectual property rights relate to our
development program for inhaled vancomycin or are necessary for us to satisfy certain continuing contractual obligations to third parties, including in connection with development, manufacture, sale, and commercialization activities related to
BAY41-6551 partnered with Bayer Healthcare LLC.  The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including
ours, involve complex legal and factual issues. There can be no assurance that the patents we apply for will be issued to us or that the patents that are issued to us will be held valid and enforceable in a court of law. Even for patents that are
enforceable, we anticipate that any attempt to enforce our patents would be time consuming and costly. Additionally, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. As a consequence, we do not
know whether any of our pending patent applications will be granted with broad coverage or whether the claims that eventually issue, or those that have issued, will be circumvented. Since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature
often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Moreover, we may have to
participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third
parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. Please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors, including but not limited to “We may not be able to obtain intellectual
property licenses related to the development of our technology on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all,” and “If any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable
intellectual property protection.”  U.S. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights exist that are owned
by third parties and relate to pharmaceutical compositions and reagents, medical devices and equipment and methods for preparation, packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical compositions. We cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, of these
rights will be considered relevant to our technology by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third parties. We could
incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our partners against any such claims. Furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could

  25 


Table of Contents

effectively block our ability to develop or commercialize some or all of our products in the U.S. and abroad and could result in the award of substantial damages. In the event of a claim of
infringement, we or our partners may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. There can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could
develop or otherwise obtain alternative technology. The failure to obtain licenses if needed may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. No assurance can be given that we can
meaningfully protect our trade secrets. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to, or disclose, our trade secrets. Please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors,
including but not limited to “We rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial
condition.”  In certain situations in which we work with drugs covered by one or more patents, our ability to develop and
commercialize our technologies may be affected by limitations in our access to these proprietary drugs. Even if we believe we are free to work with a proprietary drug, we cannot guarantee that we will not be accused of, or determined to be,
infringing a third party’s rights and be prohibited from working with the drug or found liable for damages. Any such restriction on access or liability for damages would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  It is our policy to require our employees and consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored
researchers and other advisors who receive confidential information from us to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information
developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. The agreements provide that all inventions
conceived by an employee shall be our property. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such
information.  Customer Concentrations  Our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements with partners, under which we may receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net
sales achievements, royalties or manufacturing revenue. UCB Pharma and Roche, represented 27% and 16% of our revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. No other collaboration partner accounted for more than 10% of our total
revenue during the year ended December 31, 2011.  Backlog  Pursuant to our collaboration agreements, we manufacture and supply our proprietary PEGylation materials, inventory is produced and sales are made pursuant to customer purchase orders for delivery. The
volume of our proprietary PEGylation materials actually ordered by our customers, as well as shipment schedules, are subject to frequent revisions that reflect changes in both the customers’ needs and our manufacturing capacity. In our
partnered programs where we provide contract research services, those services are typically provided under a work plan that is subject to frequent revisions that change based on the development needs and status of the program. The backlog at a
particular time is affected by a number of factors, including scheduled date of manufacture and delivery and development program status. In light of industry practice and our own experience, we do not believe that backlog as of any particular date
is indicative of future results.  Competition  Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intense and characterized by aggressive research and development and rapidly-evolving science, technology, and standards of medical care
throughout 
  26 


Table of Contents

the world. We frequently compete with pharmaceutical companies and other institutions with greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial
capabilities. We face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with
certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies.  Science and Technology Competition  We believe that our proprietary
and partnered products will compete with others in the market on the basis of one or more of the following parameters: efficacy, safety, ease of use and cost. We face intense science and technology competition from a multitude of technologies
seeking to enhance the efficacy, safety and ease of use of approved drugs and new drug molecule candidates. A number of the drug candidates in our pipeline have direct and indirect competition from large pharmaceutical companies and
biopharmaceutical companies. With our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies, we believe we have competitive advantages relating to factors such as efficacy, safety, ease of use and cost for certain applications and molecules. We
constantly monitor scientific and medical developments in order to improve our current technologies, seek licensing opportunities where appropriate, and determine the best applications for our technology platforms. 
In the fields of PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies, our competitors include Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories,
Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Mountain View Pharmaceuticals, Inc., SunBio Corporation, NOF Corporation, and Novo Nordisk A/S (formerly assets held by Neose Technologies, Inc.). Several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may
also be developing PEGylation technology, advanced polymer conjugate technology or technologies intended to deliver similar scientific and medical benefits. Some of these companies license intellectual property or pegylation materials to other
companies, while others apply the technology to create their own drug candidates.  Product and Program Specific
Competition  NKTR-118 (orally-available peripheral opioid antagonist) 
There are no oral drugs approved specifically for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) or opioid bowel dysfunction (OBD).
The only approved treatment for OIC is a subcutaneous treatment known as methylnaltrexone bromide marketed by Salix Pharmaceuticals, Ltd under a license from Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Methylnaltrexone bromide is indicated for the treatment of
opioid-induced constipation in patients with advanced illness who are receiving palliative care, when response to laxative therapy has not been sufficient. On December 20, 2011, Salix and Progenics announced positive results from a Phase 3
clinical study of oral methylnaltrexone in chronic, non-cancer pain patients with opioid-induced constipation. Other therapies used to treat OIC and OBD include over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners, such as docusate sodium, senna, and milk
of magnesia. These therapies do not address the underlying cause of constipation as a result of opioid use and are generally viewed as ineffective or only partially effective to treat the symptoms of OID and OBD. 
There are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being evaluated
for the treatment of OIC and OBD in different patient populations. Potential competitors include Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in collaboration with Salix Pharmaceuticals, Ltd., Adolor Corporation, GlaxoSmithKline, Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
in collaboration with Forest Laboratories, Mundipharma Int. Limited, Theravance, Inc., Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Alkermes, Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.  NKTR-102 (next-generation topoisomerase I inhibitor)  There are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for breast and ovarian cancers including but not limited to: Avastin® (bevacizumab), Navalbine® 
  27 


Table of Contents

(vinolrebine), Ixempra® (ixabepilone),, Ellence® (epirubicin), Gemzar® (gemcitabine), Herceptin®
(trastuzumab), Hycamtin® (topotecan), Halaven® (eribulin), Paraplatin®
(carboplatin), and Taxol® (paclitaxel). These therapies are only partially effective in treating breast and
ovarian cancer. Major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for these cancers include Bristol-Meyers Squibb, Eisai, Inc., Roche Holding Group (including its Genentech subsidiary), GlaxoSmithKline plc,
Pfizer, Inc., Eli Lilly & Co., and many others. There are currently no drugs in Phase 3 development to specifically treat metastatic breast cancer following anthracylcline, taxane and capecitabine therapy in either the adjuvant or
metastatic setting.  There are also a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in
clinical development for the treatment of colorectal cancer. Approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer include Eloxatin® (oxaliplatin), Camptosar®
(irinotecan), Avastin® (bevacizumab), Erbitux® (cetuximab), Vectibi®
(panitumumab), Xeloda® (capecitabine), Adrucil® (fluorouracil), and
Wellcovorin® (leucovorin). These therapies are only partially effective in treating the disease. There are a
number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer. If these drugs are approved, they could be competitive
with NKTR-102 if it is approved by government health authorities. These include products in development from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Pfizer, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Antigenics, Inc., F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd, Novartis AG, Cell
Therapeutics, Inc., Neopharm Inc., Meditech Research Ltd, Alchemia Limited, and many others.  BAY41-6551 (Amikacin
Inhale, formerly NKTR-061)  There are currently no approved drugs on the market for adjunctive treatment or prevention
of Gram-negative pneumonias in mechanically ventilated patients which are also administered via the pulmonary route. The current standard of care includes approved intravenous antibiotics which are partially effective for the treatment of either
hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. These drugs include drugs that fall into the categories of antipseudomonal cephalosporins, antipseudomonal carbepenems, beta-lactam/beta-lactamase
inhibitors, antipseudomonal fluoroquinolones, such as ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin, and aminoglycosides, such as amikacin, gentamycin or tobramycin.  Research and Development  Our total research and development expenditures
can be disaggregated into the following significant types of expenses (in millions):   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Salaries and employee benefits
  
$
43.8
  
  
$
37.8
  
  
$
29.4
  

 Stock compensation expense
  
 
7.9
  
  
 
7.2
  
  
 
3.4
  

 Facility and equipment
  
 
12.9
  
  
 
13.0
  
  
 
9.9
  

 Outside services, including Contract Research Organizations
  
 
43.0
  
  
 
33.4
  
  
 
38.9
  

 Supplies, including clinical trial materials
  
 
14.9
  
  
 
13.1
  
  
 
10.4
  

 Travel, lodging and meals
  
 
3.1
  
  
 
2.5
  
  
 
1.7
  

 Other
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
1.1
  
  
 
1.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Research and development expense
  
$
126.8
  
  
$
108.1
  
  
$
95.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Manufacturing and Supply  We have a manufacturing facility located in Huntsville, Alabama that is capable of manufacturing PEGylated derivatives and starting materials for active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). The facility is
also used to produce APIs to support the early phases of clinical development of our proprietary drug candidates. The facility and associated equipment are designed and operated to be consistent with the all applicable laws and regulations.

  28 


Table of Contents
As we do not maintain the capability to manufacture finished drug products, we utilize
contract manufacturers to manufacture the finished drug product for us. We source drug starting materials for our manufacturing activities from one or more suppliers. For the drug starting materials necessary for our proprietary drug candidate
development, we have agreements for the supply of such drug components with drug manufacturers or suppliers that we believe have sufficient capacity to meet our demands. However, from time to time, we source critical raw materials and services from
one or a limited number of suppliers and there is a risk that if such supply or services were interrupted, it would materially harm our business. In addition, we typically order raw materials and services on a purchase order basis and do not enter
into long-term dedicated capacity or minimum supply arrangements.  Environment 
As a manufacturer of PEG reagents for the U.S. market, we are subject to inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP and other
U.S. regulatory requirements, including U.S. federal, state and local regulations regarding environmental protection and hazardous and controlled substance controls, among others. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change
frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenditures to ensure we are in compliance with these laws and regulations. We would be subject to significant penalties for
failure to comply with these laws and regulations.  Employees and Consultants 
As of December 31, 2011, we had 423 employees, of which 315 employees were engaged in research and development, commercial
operations and quality activities and 108 employees were engaged in general administration and business development. Of the 423 employees, 342 were located in the United States and 81 were located in India. We have a number of employees
who hold advanced degrees, such as Ph.D.s. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe that we maintain good relations with our employees. 
To complement our own expert professional staff, we utilize specialists in regulatory affairs, process engineering, manufacturing,
quality assurance, clinical development and business development. These individuals include certain of our scientific advisors as well as independent consultants.  Available Information  Our website address is http://www.nektar.com.
The information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
those reports are available, free of charge, on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any
materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains
an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. 
  29 


Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of our executive officers as of February 28, 2012: 
 








 Name
  
Age
  
 Position

Howard W. Robin
  
59
  
Director, President and Chief Executive Officer

John Nicholson
  
60
  
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Stephen K. Doberstein, Ph.D.
  
53
  
Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer

Gil M. Labrucherie, J.D.
  
40
  
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Jillian B. Thomsen
  
46
  
Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer

Rinko Ghosh
  
48
  
Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer
 Howard W. Robin has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2007 and has
served as a member of our Board of Directors since February 2007. Mr. Robin served as Chief Executive Officer, President and director of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., a clinical-stage biotechnology company pioneering RNAi-based therapies for
serious diseases and conditions, from July 2001 to November 2006 and served as their Chief Operating Officer, President and Director from January 2001 to June 2001. From 1991 to 2001, Mr. Robin was Corporate Vice President and General Manager
at Berlex Laboratories, Inc., the U.S. pharmaceutical subsidiary of the German pharmaceutical firm Schering AG, and, from 1987 to 1991, he served as their Vice President of Finance and Business Development and Chief Financial Officer. From 1984
to 1987, Mr. Robin was Director of Business Planning and Development at Berlex and was a Senior Associate with Arthur Andersen LLP prior to joining Berlex. Since February 2006, Mr. Robin has served as a member of the Board of Directors of
Acologix, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company focused on therapeutic compounds for the treatment of osteo-renal diseases. He received his B.S. in Accounting and Finance from Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1974. 
John Nicholson has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2007. Mr. Nicholson joined
the Company as Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Business Operations in October 2007 and was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in December 2007. Before joining Nektar, Mr. Nicholson spent 18 years
in various executive roles at Schering Berlin, Inc., the U.S. management holding company of Bayer Schering Pharma AG, a pharmaceutical company. From 1997 to September 2007, Mr. Nicholson served as Schering Berlin Inc.’s Vice President
of Corporate Development and Treasurer. From 2001 to September 2007, he concurrently served as President of Schering Berlin Insurance Co., and from February 2007 through September 2007, he also concurrently served as President of Bayer Pharma
Chemicals and Schering Berlin Capital Corp. Mr. Nicholson holds a B.B.A. from the University of Toledo.  Stephen K.
Doberstein, Ph.D. has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer since January 2010. From October 2008 through December 2009, Dr. Doberstein served as Vice President, Research at Xoma (US) LLC, a publicly traded
clinical stage biotechnology company. From July 2004 until August 2008, he served as Vice President, Research at privately held Five Prime Therapeutics, a clinical stage biotechnology company. From September 2001 until July 2004, Dr. Doberstein
was Vice President, Research at privately held Xencor, Inc., a clinical stage biotechnology company. From 1997 to 2000, he held various pharmaceutical research positions at Exelixis, Inc., a publicly traded clinical stage biotechnology company.
Prior to working at Exelixis, Dr. Doberstein was a Howard Hughes Postdoctoral Fellow and a Muscular Dystrophy Association Senior Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of California Berkeley. Dr. Doberstein received his Ph.D. Biochemistry,
Cell and Molecular Biology from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and received a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from the University of Delaware.  Gil M. Labrucherie has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since April 2007, responsible for all aspects of our legal affairs. Mr. Labrucherie served as our Vice
President, Corporate 
  30 


Table of Contents

Legal from October 2005 through April 2007. From October 2000 to September 2005, Mr. Labrucherie was Vice President of Corporate Development at E2open. While at E2open, Mr. Labrucherie
was responsible for global corporate alliances and merger and acquisition activity. Prior to E2open, he was the Senior Director of Corporate Development at AltaVista Company, an Internet search company, where he was responsible for strategic
partnerships and mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Labrucherie began his career as an associate in the corporate practice of the law firm of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati and Graham & James (DLA Piper Rudnick).
Mr. Labrucherie received his J.D. from the Berkeley Law School and a B.A. from the University of California Davis. 
Jillian B. Thomsen has served as our Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. From March
2006 through March 2008, Ms. Thomsen served as our Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller and from April 2008 through January 2010 she served as our Vice President Finance and Chief Accounting Officer. Before joining Nektar,
Ms. Thomsen was Vice President Finance and Deputy Corporate Controller of Calpine Corporation from September 2002 to February 2006. Ms. Thomsen is a certified public accountant and previously was a senior manager at Arthur Andersen LLP,
where she worked from 1990 to 2002, and specialized in audits of multinational consumer products, life sciences, manufacturing and energy companies. Ms. Thomsen holds a Masters of Accountancy from the University of Denver and a B.A. in Business
Economics from Colorado College.  Rinko Ghosh has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer since
March 2010. He served as our Senior Vice President, Business Development and Alliance Management from March 2008 through February 2010, our Vice President, Business Development from August 2006 until February 2008, Senior Director, Business
Development from July 2005 until July 2006, and prior to that he worked in a variety of corporate and business development roles for us from May 2001 to June 2005. From February 2001 to April 2001, he was engaged as a commercial development
consultant at Aviron (now Medimmune/AstraZeneca) in Palo Alto. From 1999 to 2000, Mr. Ghosh was co-Chief Executive Officer of a private biotechnology company in Asia. From 1994 to 1999, he was engaged as a management consultant with A.T.
Kearney, a global management consulting firm. From 1989 to 1992, he worked as an environmental consultant with Environ Corporation, a human health and environmental consulting firm. Mr. Ghosh earned his M.B.A. from the Wharton School,
University of Pennsylvania, his M.S. in Environmental Engineering from Vanderbilt University, and his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. 
  31 


Table of Contents


Item 1A.
Risk Factors 
We are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our
business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. We note these factors for investors as
permitted by Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete
discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact
of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Risks Related to Our Business 
Drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development.
 We have a number of proprietary drug candidates and partnered drug candidates in research and development ranging from
the early discovery research phase through preclinical testing and clinical trials. Preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive and highly uncertain processes. It will take us, or our collaborative partners, several years to
complete clinical studies. The start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment,
changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our own financial constraints.  Drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of clinical development. Typically, there is a high rate of attrition for drug
candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. The risk of failure is increased for our drug candidates that are based on new technologies, such
as the application of our advanced polymer conjugate technology to small molecules, including NKTR-118, NKTR-119, NKTR-102, NKTR-181, NKTR-192 and other drug candidates currently in discovery research or preclinical development. The failure of one
or more of our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Even with success in preclinical testing and previously completed clinical trials, the risk of clinical failure for any drug candidate remains high prior to regulatory approval. 
A number of companies have suffered significant unforeseen failures in late stage clinical studies due to factors such as inconclusive
efficacy results and adverse medical events, even after achieving positive results in earlier clinical studies that were satisfactory both to them and to reviewing government health authorities. While the NKTR-118, NKTR-102, and Amikacin Inhale drug
candidates have each demonstrated positive results from Phase 2 clinical studies, there is a substantial risk that Phase 3 clinical study outcomes from these drug candidates from larger patient populations will not demonstrate positive efficacy,
safety or other clinical outcomes sufficient to support regulatory filings and achieve regulatory approval. Phase 3 clinical outcomes remain very unpredictable and it is possible that one or more of these Phase 3 clinical studies could fail at any
time due to efficacy, safety or other important clinical findings or regulatory requirements. If one or more of these drug candidates fail in Phase 3 clinical studies, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 
  32 


Table of Contents
If we or our partners do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates on a
timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. 
We or our partners may not obtain regulatory approval for drug candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or the terms of any approval
(which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions or limitations on use. Drug candidates must undergo rigorous animal and human testing and an extensive FDA mandated or equivalent foreign government health
authority review process for safety and efficacy. This process generally takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. The time required for completing testing and obtaining approvals is uncertain, and the FDA and
other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical studies, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and
mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. In addition, undesirable side effects caused by our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restricted label or
the delay or denial of regulatory approval by regulatory authorities.  Even if we or our partners receive regulatory approval
of a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. Our partnered drugs that have obtained regulatory approval, and the manufacturing processes for these products, are subject to continued review and periodic
inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Discovery from such review and inspection of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on marketed products or on us, including withdrawal or recall of such products from the
market, suspension of related manufacturing operations or a more restricted label. The failure to obtain timely regulatory approval of product candidates, any product marketing limitations or a product withdrawal would negatively impact our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  We will need to raise substantial additional capital to repay
the $215.0 million in convertible notes due in September 2012 and fund our planned future operations, and we may be unable to secure such capital without dilutive financing transactions. 
On February 29, 2012, we received $124.0 million in gross proceeds from the sale of our royalty interest in the
CIMZIA® and MIRCERA® drug products. Additionally, we incurred approximately $4.5 million in transaction costs. We plan to use the proceeds from this transaction towards the repayment of
our $215.0 million in convertible subordinated notes due in September 2012. We are actively pursuing other non-dilutive financing alternatives such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us or term loan arrangements. We may seek to
repurchase our convertible notes through cash purchases in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions and/or a tender offer, if we can do so on attractive terms. If non-dilutive financing alternatives are not available to us on
commercially reasonable terms or at all, in order to continue future operations as planned, we will be required to pursue dilutive equity-based financing alternatives such as the issuance of convertible debt or common stock to fund the remaining
balance of the convertible notes and to provide sufficient capital to fund our future operations. The issuance of convertible notes, common stock, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our securities would dilute the
percentage ownership of our current common stock security holders and could significantly lower the market value of our common stock. In addition, a financing could result in the issuance of new securities that may have rights, preferences or
privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we issue convertible notes or enter into a term loan arrangement, the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness may limit funds available for our business activities such as
the continued advancement of our research and development pipeline, and such indebtedness could impose covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and
specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens or make investments. 
  33 


Table of Contents
We have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have
access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. If we do not receive substantial milestone payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaborations or other arrangements, or are unable to raise
additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our current level of investment in research and development.  As of December 31, 2011, we had cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities valued at approximately $414.9 million and indebtedness of approximately $239.9 million, including
approximately $215.0 million in convertible subordinated notes due September 2012, $17.0 million in capital lease obligations, and $7.9 million of other liabilities. While we believe that our cash position will be sufficient to meet our liquidity
requirements through at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous unpredictable factors, including:   


 
•
 
 if and when we receive potential milestone payments and royalties from our existing collaborations if the drug candidates subject to those
collaborations achieve clinical, regulatory or commercial success, in particular, if the Phase 3 KODIAC studies being conducted by AstraZeneca for NKTR-118 are successful and AstraZeneca files an NDA with the FDA and a marketing application with the
European Medicines Agency for NKTR-118, we will be entitled to $95 million in milestone payments;   


 
•
 
 the progress, timing, cost and results of our clinical development programs — in particular our Phase 3 BEACON study for NKTR-102 and our planned
Phase 2 clinical study for NKTR-181;   


 
•
 
 the success, progress, timing and costs of our efforts to implement new collaborations, licenses and other transactions that increase our current net
cash, such as the sale of additional royalty interests held by us, term loan or other debt arrangements, and the issuance of securities;   


 
•
 
 the cost, timing and outcomes of clinical studies and regulatory reviews of our proprietary drug candidates that we have licensed to our collaboration
partners (e.g., NKTR-118, Amikacin Inhale, BAX 855);   


 
•
 
 the outcome of the regulatory review process and commercial success of drug products for which we are entitled to receive royalties (e.g.,
Affymax’s peginesatide and Map Pharmaceutical’s Levadex®); 
 


 
•
 
 the number of patients, enrollment criteria, primary and secondary endpoints, and the number of clinical studies required by the government health
authorities in order to consider for approval our drug candidates and those of our collaboration partners;   


 
•
 
 our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and other uses of cash; and 
 


 
•
 
 disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights, or license and collaboration agreements that negatively impact our receipt of milestone payments or
royalties or require us to make significant payments arising from licenses, settlements, adverse judgments or ongoing royalties.  A significant multi-year capital commitment is required to advance our drug candidates through the various stages of research and development in order to generate sufficient data to enable high value
collaboration partnerships with significant up-front payments or to successfully achieve regulatory approval. If sufficient capital is not available to us or is not available on commercially reasonable terms, it could require us to delay or reduce
one or more of our research and development programs. If we are unable to sufficiently advance our research and development programs, it could substantially impair the value of such programs and result in a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations. 
  34 


Table of Contents
The results from the expanded Phase 2 clinical study for NKTR-102 in women with
platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer are unlikely to result in a review or an approval of a new drug application (NDA) by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the future results from this trial are difficult to predict.
 We expanded the NKTR-102 Phase 2 study by 110 patients in women with platinum-resistant/refractory
ovarian cancer that had received prior Doxil® therapy with the potential for us to consider an early NDA
submission after we evaluate these expanded study results. As of February 2012, approximately 94 of the planned 110 patients had been enrolled in the study. Due to an ongoing supply shortage of
Doxil®, we do not expect to complete full enrollment of this study. We are currently in the process of compiling
and performing verification procedures on preliminary interim results from the patients. Acceptance and approval of an NDA by the FDA almost always requires the sponsor to conduct comparative Phase 3 clinical studies prior to acceptance for review
or approval of an NDA. As a result, acceptance for review or approval of an accelerated NDA submitted to the FDA based on overall response rate from our single-arm Phase 2 study in platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer would be unusual and is
highly unlikely. Therefore we do not expect the FDA to accept or approve an accelerated NDA based on this Phase 2 clinical study. The FDA has significant discretion to determine what constitutes a high unmet medical need, what therapies should be
considered available to patients regardless of which therapies are approved or typically prescribed in a particular setting, the relevance of certain efficacy end points (e.g. overall response rate, progression free survival, overall survival), and
the number of patients required to be studied to demonstrate sufficient therapeutic benefit and safety profile. One or more of such judgments and determinations by the FDA could impair our ability to submit an accelerated NDA for platinum
resistant/refractory ovarian cancer patients, and even if submitted, whether the FDA would accept it for review and/or approve the NDA.  Further, this expansion of our Phase 2 study in platinum resistant/refractory ovarian cancer will necessarily change the final efficacy (e.g., overall response rates, progression-free survival, overall
survival) and safety (i.e., frequency and severity of serious adverse events) results, and, accordingly, the final results in this study remain subject to substantial change and could be materially and adversely different from previously announced
results. If the clinical studies for NKTR-102 ovarian cancer are not successful, it could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.  While we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have not been able to convert NKTR-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid, there is a
risk that in the future a technique could be discovered to convert NKTR-181 into a rapid-acting and more abusable opioid which would significantly diminish the value of this drug candidate. 
An important objective of our NKTR-181 drug development program is to create a unique opioid molecule that does not rapidly enter a
patient’s central nervous system and therefore has the potential to be less susceptible to abuse than alternative opioid therapies. To date, we have conducted numerous experiments using laboratory and home-based chemistry techniques that have
been unable to convert NKTR-181 into a rapidly-acting, more abusable form of opioid. In the future, an alternative chemistry technique, process or method of administration, or combination thereof, may be discovered to enable the conversion of
NKTR-181 into a more abusable opioid which could significantly and negatively impact the potential of NKTR-181.  If we
are unable to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships on attractive commercial terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. 
We intend to continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners to fund a portion of our research and
development capital requirements. For example, in September 2009 we entered into a license agreement with AstraZeneca for NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 that included an upfront payment of $125.0 million. The timing of new collaboration partnerships is
difficult to predict due to availability of clinical data, the outcomes from our clinical studies, the number of potential partners that need to complete due diligence and 
  35 


Table of Contents

approval processes, the definitive agreement negotiation process and numerous other unpredictable factors that can delay, impede or prevent significant transactions. If we are unable to find
suitable partners or to negotiate collaboration arrangements with favorable commercial terms with respect to our existing and future drug candidates or the licensing of our intellectual property, or if any arrangements we negotiate, or have
negotiated, are terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Preliminary and interim data from our clinical studies that we announce or publish from time to time is subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the
final data and may change as more patient data becomes available.  From time to time, we publish preliminary or interim
data from our clinical studies. Preliminary data remains subject to audit confirmation and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. Interim data is also
subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data becomes available. As a result, preliminary and interim data should be viewed with caution until the final data
are available. Material adverse changes in the final data could significantly harm our business prospects.  The
commercial potential of a drug candidate in development is difficult to predict. If the market size for a new drug is significantly smaller than we anticipate, it could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and
financial condition.  It is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of product candidates due to important
factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential generic drug alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care, third party payer reimbursement standards, patient and physician
preferences, the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the long drug development process or after commercial introduction, and the availability of generic versions of our successful product candidates following
approval by government health authorities based on the expiration of regulatory exclusivity or our inability to prevent generic versions from coming to market by asserting our patents. If due to one or more of these risks the market potential for a
drug candidate is lower than we anticipated, it could significantly and negatively impact the commercial terms of any collaboration partnership potential for such drug candidate or, if we have already entered into a collaboration for such drug
candidate, the revenue potential from royalty and milestone payments could be significantly diminished and would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
We may not be able to obtain intellectual property licenses related to the development of our technology on a commercially
reasonable basis, if at all.  Numerous pending and issued U.S. and foreign patent rights and other proprietary rights
owned by third parties relate to pharmaceutical compositions, methods of preparation and manufacturing, and methods of use and administration. We cannot predict with any certainty which, if any, patent references will be considered relevant to our
or our collaboration partners’ technology or drug candidates by authorities in the various jurisdictions where such rights exist, nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights will or may be asserted against us by third
parties. In certain cases, we have existing licenses or cross-licenses with third parties, however the scope and adequacy of these licenses is very uncertain and can change substantially during long development and commercialization cycles for
biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we can obtain a license to any technology that we determine we need on reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or otherwise obtain alternate technology. If we
are required to enter into a license with a third party, our potential economic benefit for the products subject to the license will be diminished. If a license is not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, results of
operations, and financial condition could be significantly harmed and we may be prevented from developing and selling the drug. 
  36 


Table of Contents
We are a party to numerous collaboration agreements and other significant agreements
which contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
We currently derive, and expect to derive in the foreseeable future, all of our revenue from collaboration agreements with biotechnology
and pharmaceutical companies. These collaboration agreements contain complex commercial terms, including:   


 
•
 
 clinical development and commercialization obligations that are based on certain commercial reasonableness performance standards that can often be
difficult to enforce if disputes arise as to adequacy of performance;   


 
•
 
 research and development performance and reimbursement obligations for our personnel and other resources allocated to partnered drug candidate
development programs;   


 
•
 
 clinical and commercial manufacturing agreements, some of which are priced on an actual cost basis for products supplied by us to our partners with
complicated cost allocation formulas and methodologies;   


 
•
 
 intellectual property ownership allocation between us and our partners for improvements and new inventions developed during the course of the
collaboration;   


 
•
 
 royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables, including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent
life, generic competitors, bundled pricing and other factors; and   


 
•
 
 indemnity obligations for intellectual property infringement, product liability and certain other claims. 
On September 20, 2009, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with AstraZeneca for the further development and
commercialization of NKTR-118 and NKTR-119. In addition, we have also entered into complex commercial agreements with Novartis in connection with the sale of certain assets related to our pulmonary business, associated technology and intellectual
property to Novartis (the Novartis Pulmonary Asset Sale), which was completed on December 31, 2008. As part of the Novartis Pulmonary Asset Sale, we entered an exclusive license agreement with Novartis Pharma pursuant to which Novartis Pharma
grants back to us an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free and worldwide license under certain specific patent rights and other related intellectual property rights necessary for us to satisfy certain continuing contractual obligations to
third parties, including in connection with development, manufacture, sale and commercialization activities related to our partnered program for Amikacin Inhale with Bayer. We also entered into a service agreement pursuant to which we have
subcontracted to Novartis certain services to be performed related to our partner program for Amikacin Inhale. Our agreements with AstraZeneca and Novartis contain complex representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification obligations
that could result in substantial future liability and harm our financial condition if we breach any of our agreements with AstraZeneca or Novartis or any third party agreements impacted by these complex transactions. 
From time to time, we have informal dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the
complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. One or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our collaboration agreements, transaction documents, or third-party license agreements that may ultimately result in costly
litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  37 


Table of Contents
We could be involved in legal proceedings and may incur substantial litigation costs
and liabilities that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  From time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we or our partners infringe their proprietary rights, such as patents and trade secrets, or have otherwise breached our
obligations to them. The third party often bases its assertions on a claim that its patents cover our technology platform or drug candidates or that we have misappropriated its confidential or proprietary information. Similar assertions of
infringement could be based on future patents that may issue to third parties. In certain of our agreements with our partners, we are obligated to indemnify and hold harmless our collaboration partners from intellectual property infringement,
product liability and certain other claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and liability if we are called upon to defend ourselves and our partners against any claims. If a third party obtains injunctive or other equitable relief
against us or our partners, they could effectively prevent us, or our partners, from developing or commercializing, or deriving revenue from, certain drugs or drug candidates in the U.S. and abroad. For instance, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, to which
we license our proprietary PEGylation reagent intellectual property for use in the MIRCERA® product, was a party
to a significant patent infringement lawsuit brought by Amgen Inc. related to Roche’s proposed marketing and sale of
MIRCERA® to treat chemotherapy anemia in the U.S. In October 2008, a federal court ruled in favor of Amgen,
issuing a permanent injunction preventing Roche from marketing or selling MIRCERA® in the U.S. Roche and Amgen
subsequently entered into a settlement and limited license agreement which allows Roche to begin selling
MIRCERA® in the U.S. in July 2014. Currently, the Research Foundation of the State University of New York (SUNY)
seeks to recover amounts it alleges it is owed pursuant to a technology licensing contract between SUNY and us. SUNY has filed an action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York. We dispute SUNY’s claims.
However, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. Costs associated with such litigation, substantial damage claims, indemnification claims or royalties paid for licenses from third parties could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Third-party claims involving
proprietary rights or other matters could also result in substantial settlement payments or substantial damages to be paid by us. For instance, a settlement might require us to enter a license agreement under which we would pay substantial royalties
or other compensation to a third party, diminishing our future economic returns from the related drug. In October 2011, we entered into a settlement related to a trade secret and breach of contract litigation where we agreed to make an upfront
payment of $2.7 million and a future contingent payment of $3.0 million if a certain drug candidate receives FDA approval. In 2006, we entered into a litigation settlement related to an intellectual property dispute with the University of Alabama in
Huntsville pursuant to which we paid $11.0 million and agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in equal $1.0 million installments over ten years ending with the last payment due on July 1, 2016. 
If any of our pending patent applications do not issue, or are deemed invalid following issuance, we may lose valuable intellectual
property protection.  The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as ours, are uncertain
and involve complex legal and factual issues. We own greater than 120 U.S. and 420 foreign patents and a number of pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our technologies. We have filed patent applications, and plan to file
additional patent applications, covering various aspects of our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies and our proprietary product candidates. There can be no assurance that patents that have issued will be valid and enforceable or
that patents for which we apply will issue with broad coverage, if at all. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued and, as a consequence, our patent applications may result in patents
with narrow coverage that may not prevent competition from similar drugs. The scope of our patent claim coverage can be critical to our right to receive royalties from our collaboration partnerships. Since publication of discoveries in scientific or
patent literature often lags behind the date of such discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. As part of the patent application process, we may have to participate
in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which could result in 
  38 


Table of Contents

substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. Further, an issued patent may undergo further proceedings to limit its scope so as not to provide meaningful protection and any
claims that have issued, or that eventually issue, may be circumvented or otherwise invalidated. Any attempt to enforce our patents or patent application rights could be time consuming and costly. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant
liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from or to third parties or require us to cease using the technology in dispute. Even if a patent is issued and enforceable, because development and commercialization of
pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays, patents may expire early and provide only a short period of protection, if any, following commercialization of related products. 
There are many laws, regulations and judicial decisions that dictate and otherwise influence the manner in which patent applications are
filed and prosecuted and in which patents are granted and enforced. Changes to these laws, regulations and judicial decisions are subject to influences outside of our control and may negatively affect our business, including our ability to obtain
meaningful patent coverage or enforcement rights to any of our issued patents. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions may be retroactive in effect, potentially reducing or eliminating our ability to implement our patent-related strategies.
Changes to laws, regulations and judicial decisions that affect our business are often difficult or impossible to foresee, which limits our ability to adequately adapt our patent strategies to these changes. 
Our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to governmental regulatory requirements, which, if
not met, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We and
our contract manufacturers are required in certain cases to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cGMP), including cGMP guidelines applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or
comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. We anticipate periodic regulatory inspections of our drug manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers for compliance with applicable
regulatory requirements. Any failure to follow and document our or our contract manufacturers’ adherence to such cGMP regulations or satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may disrupt our ability to meet our
manufacturing obligations to our customers, lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, result in the termination or hold on a clinical study or delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing
applications for our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our
products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. The results of these inspections could result in
costly manufacturing changes or facility or capital equipment upgrades to satisfy the FDA that our manufacturing and quality control procedures are in substantial compliance with cGMP. Manufacturing delays, for us or our contract manufacturers,
pending resolution of regulatory deficiencies or suspensions would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  If we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture drugs or drug substances in sufficient quantities that meet applicable quality standards, it could delay clinical studies, result in
reduced sales or constitute a breach of our contractual obligations, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If we or our contract manufacturers are not able to manufacture and supply sufficient drug quantities meeting applicable quality standards required to support large clinical studies or commercial
manufacturing in a timely manner, we risk delaying our clinical studies or those of our collaboration partners, reducing drug sales by our collaboration partners or breaching contractual obligations. As a result, we could incur substantial costs and
damages, and reduce or even eliminate product or royalty revenue. In some cases, we rely on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply drug product for our clinical studies and those of our

  39 


Table of Contents

collaboration partners. Pharmaceutical manufacturing involves significant risks and uncertainties related to the demonstration of adequate stability, sufficient purification of the drug substance
and drug product, the identification and elimination of impurities, optimal formulations, process validation, and challenges in controlling for all of these variables. We have faced and may in the future face significant difficulties, delays and
unexpected expenses as we validate third party contract manufacturers required for drug supply to support our clinical studies and the clinical studies and products of our collaboration partners. Failure by us or our contract manufacturers to supply
drug product in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality requirements could result in supply shortages for our clinical studies or the clinical studies and commercial activities of our collaboration partners. Such failures could
significantly and materially delay clinical trials and regulatory submissions or result in reduced sales, any of which could significantly harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 
Failures in device manufacturing has similar effects. For instance, we entered a service agreement with Novartis pursuant to which we
subcontract to Novartis certain important services to be performed in relation to our partnered program for Amikacin Inhale with Bayer Healthcare LLC. If our subcontractors do not dedicate adequate resources to our programs, we risk breach of our
obligations to our partners. Building and validating large scale clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing facilities and processes, recruiting and training qualified personnel and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals is complex, expensive and
time consuming. In the past we have encountered challenges in scaling up manufacturing to meet the requirements of large scale clinical trials without making modifications to the drug formulation, which may cause significant delays in clinical
development. We have experienced repeated significant delays in starting the Phase 3 clinical development program for Amikacin Inhale as we seek to finalize and validate the device design with a demonstrated capability to be manufactured at
commercial scale. This work is ongoing and there remains significant risk in finalizing, validating, and producing the device at sufficient quantities meeting applicable quality requirements until this work is completed. Drug/device combination
products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient/doctor use, maintenance of clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of
manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. There continues to be substantial and unpredictable risk and uncertainty related to manufacturing and supply until such time as the commercial supply chain is
validated and proven.  Our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in
significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue.  Our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements from which we receive contract research payments, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements,
royalties and manufacturing revenue. Significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from significant milestone payments based on the execution of new collaboration agreements, the timing of
clinical outcomes, regulatory approval, commercial launch and the achievement of certain annual sales thresholds. The amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors,
including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partners achieve clinical, regulatory
and sales milestones, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets, reimbursement levels by private and government payers, and the market introduction of new drugs or generic versions of the approved drug, as well as other
factors. 
  40 


Table of Contents
If our partners, on which we depend to obtain regulatory approvals for and to
commercialize our partnered drug candidates, are not successful, or if such collaborations fail, the development or commercialization of our partnered drug candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. 
When we sign a collaborative development agreement or license agreement to develop a drug candidate with a pharmaceutical or biotechnology
company, the pharmaceutical or biotechnology company is generally expected to:   


 
•
 
 design and conduct large scale clinical studies;   


 
•
 
 prepare and file documents necessary to obtain government approvals to sell a given drug candidate; and/or 
 


 
•
 
 market and sell the drugs when and if they are approved.  Our reliance on collaboration partners poses a number of risks to our business, including risks that:   


 
•
 
 we may be unable to control whether, and the extent to which, our partners devote sufficient resources to the development programs or commercial
marketing and sales efforts;   


 
•
 
 disputes may arise or escalate in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or intellectual property developed with partners;
  


 
•
 
 disagreements with partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or to
litigation or arbitration proceedings;   


 
•
 
 contracts with our partners may fail to provide us with significant protection, or to be effectively enforced, in the event one of our partners fails
to perform;   


 
•
 
 partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue alternative
technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors;   


 
•
 
 partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our partnered products than they do to products of their own
development or products in-licensed from other third parties;   


 
•
 
 the timing and level of resources that our partners dedicate to the development program will affect the timing and amount of revenue we receive;
  


 
•
 
 we do not have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements (or partners may have extension or renewal rights) that we believe are not on
commercially reasonable terms or consistent with our current business strategy;   


 
•
 
 partners may be unable to pay us as expected; and   


 
•
 
 partners may terminate their agreements with us unilaterally for any or no reason, in some cases with the payment of a termination fee penalty and in
other cases with no termination fee penalty.  Given these risks, the success of our current and future
partnerships is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business. We have entered into collaborations in the past that have been subsequently terminated, such as our collaboration with Pfizer for the
development and commercialization of inhaled insulin that was terminated by Pfizer in November 2007. If other collaborations are suspended or terminated, our ability to commercialize certain other proposed product candidates could also be negatively
impacted. If our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  41 


Table of Contents
If we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or to
enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize our products successfully.  We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. To commercialize any of our drugs that receive regulatory approval for commercialization, we must either develop internal sales,
marketing and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming, or enter into collaboration arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we decide to market our products directly, we must commit significant
financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution, administration and compliance capabilities. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products
directly or indirectly with our partners include:   


 
•
 
 our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; 
 


 
•
 
 the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to use or prescribe our products;
  


 
•
 
 the lack of complementary products or multiple product pricing arrangements may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more
extensive product lines; and   


 
•
 
 unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. 
If we, or our partners through our collaborations, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a
sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
To the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to
market our products, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any
revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. In the event that we market our products without a partner, we would be required to build a sales and marketing
organization and infrastructure, which would require a significant investment and we may not be successful in building this organization and infrastructure in a timely or efficient manner. 
We purchase some of the starting material for drugs and drug candidates from a single source or a limited number of suppliers, and
the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial loss of revenue and contract liability to third parties. 
We often face very limited supply of a critical raw material that can only be obtained from a single, or a limited number of, suppliers,
which could cause production delays, clinical trial delays, substantial lost revenue opportunity or contract liability to third parties. For example, there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers, and in some cases single source suppliers,
for the raw materials included in our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate drug formulations, and any interruption in supply or failure to procure such raw materials on commercially feasible terms could harm our business by delaying our
clinical trials, impeding commercialization of approved drugs or increasing our costs to the extent we cannot pass on increased costs to a manufacturing customer. 
  42 


Table of Contents
We rely on trade secret protection and other unpatented proprietary rights for
important proprietary technologies, and any loss of such rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. No assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and
proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, unpatented proprietary rights, including trade secrets and know-how, can be
difficult to protect and may lose their value if they are independently developed by a third party or if their secrecy is lost. Any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented proprietary rights could harm our business, results of operations
and financial condition.  We expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and
may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we reported a net
loss of $134.0 million. If and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including the timing and recognition of milestone payments and royalties received, the timing of revenue under our collaboration agreements, the amount of
investments we make in our proprietary product candidates and the regulatory approval and market success of our product candidates. We may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. 
Other factors that will affect whether we achieve and sustain profitability include our ability, alone or together with our partners, to:
  


 
•
 
 develop drugs utilizing our technologies, either independently or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical or biotech companies;
  


 
•
 
 effectively estimate and manage clinical development costs, particularly the cost of the BEACON study and the Phase 2 clinical study for NKTR-181;
  


 
•
 
 receive necessary regulatory and marketing approvals; 
 


 
•
 
 maintain or expand manufacturing at necessary levels; 
 


 
•
 
 achieve market acceptance of our partnered products;   


 
•
 
 receive royalties on products that have been approved, marketed or submitted for marketing approval with regulatory authorities; and
  


 
•
 
 maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities.  If government and private insurance programs do not provide payment or reimbursement for our partnered products or proprietary products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have
a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In both domestic and foreign
markets, sales of our partnered and proprietary products that have received regulatory approval will depend in part on market acceptance among physicians and patients, pricing approvals by government authorities and the availability of payment or
reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Such third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost
effectiveness of medical products and services. Therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. Moreover, legislation and regulations
affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our proposed products for marketing and could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, our products from government authorities and third-party
payers. A government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our products would limit market acceptance of such products. 
  43 


Table of Contents
We depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our proprietary product
candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans.  We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our proprietary product candidates. We rely heavily
on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials. Though we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities, many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. For example, we are responsible for ensuring that
each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or communicate issues regarding our products
to us in an untimely manner. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The early termination of any of our clinical trial
arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development,
approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Significant competition for our polymer conjugate chemistry technology platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates could make our technologies, products or product
candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate chemistry platforms and our partnered and proprietary products and product candidates compete with various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Competitors of our PEGylation and polymer conjugate chemistry technologies include Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., SunBio Corporation, Mountain View Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Novo Nordisk A/S (formerly assets held
by Neose Technologies, Inc.), and NOF Corporation. Several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing PEGylation technologies or technologies that have similar impact on target drug molecules. Some of these
companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others are developing the technology for internal use.  There are several competitors for our proprietary product candidates currently in development. For Amikacin Inhale, the current standard of care includes several approved intravenous antibiotics for the
treatment of either hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients on mechanical ventilators. For NKTR-118, there are currently several alternative therapies used to address opioid-induced constipation (OIC) and
opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (OBD), including subcutaneous Relistor® (methylnaltrexone bromide) and oral and
rectal over-the-counter laxatives and stool softeners such as docusate sodium, senna and milk of magnesia. In addition, there are a number of companies developing potential products which are in various stages of clinical development and are being
evaluated for the treatment of OIC and OBD in different patient populations, including Adolor Corporation, Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in collaboration with Salix Pharmaceuticals, Ltd., Mundipharma Int. Limited, Sucampo Pharmaceuticals,
Alkermes, Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. For NKTR-102, there are a number of chemotherapies and cancer therapies approved today and in various stages of clinical development for ovarian and breast cancers including but not limited
to: Avastin® (bevacizumab), Camptosar® (irinotecan), Doxil®
(doxorubicin HCl), Ellence® (epirubicin), Gemzar® (gemcitabine), Herceptin®
(trastuzumab), Hycamtin® (topotecan), Iniparib, Paraplatin® (carboplatin), and Taxol®
(paclitaxel). Major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with approved drugs or drugs in development for these cancers include Bristol-Meyers Squibb, Eli Lilly & Co., Roche, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Johnson and Johnson, Pfizer, Inc.,
Sanofi Aventis, and many others. There are approved therapies for the treatment of colorectal cancer, including
Eloxatin® (oxaliplatin), Camptosar® (irinotecan), Avastin®
(bevacizumab), Erbitux® (cetuximab), Vectibix® (panitumumab), Xeloda®
(capecitabine), Adrucil® (fluorouracil), and Wellcovorin ® (leucovorin). In addition, there are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved
chemotherapeutic 
  44 


Table of Contents

agents to potentially treat colorectal cancer, including, but not limited to, products in development from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Pfizer, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Antigenics, Inc., F.
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Novartis AG, Cell Therapeutics, Inc., Neopharm Inc., Meditech Research Ltd, Alchemia Limited, Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and others.  There can be no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize next-generation or new products that will successfully compete with those of
our competitors. Many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and sales, manufacturing and managerial capabilities. We face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas
such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program
partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. As a result, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining regulatory approval or gaining market acceptance for products before we do. These
developments could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete.  If product liability lawsuits are
brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities.  The manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of
medical products involve inherent product liability risks. If product liability costs exceed our product liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a severe negative impact on our financial position. Whether
or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business.
Additionally, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. 
Our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations and their associated expenses.
 Our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential
commercialization of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates. Our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties,
while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. Our decision to bear a majority or all of the clinical development costs of NKTR-102 substantially increases our future capital requirements. If we are unable to manage
effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our
personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. Furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds
through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing
arrangements on unfavorable terms.  We are dependent on our management team and key technical personnel, and the loss of
any key manager or employee may impair our ability to develop our products effectively and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition.  Our success largely depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could seriously harm
our business, operating results and financial condition. The relationships that our key managers have cultivated within our industry make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. We are also dependent on the continued
services of our technical personnel because of the highly technical nature of our 
  45 


Table of Contents

products and the regulatory approval process. Because our executive officers and key employees are not obligated to provide us with continued services, they could terminate their employment with
us at any time without penalty. We do not have any post-employment noncompetition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key employees. 
Because competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel we
need to support our operations and growth.  We must attract and retain experts in the areas of clinical testing,
manufacturing, regulatory, finance, marketing and distribution and develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. We face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations
for qualified personnel. Many of the organizations with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. Because competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense, companies such as ours sometimes experience
high attrition rates with regard to their skilled employees. Further, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Our equity incentive plan and
employee benefit plans may not be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees, and significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel. If we
fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed.  If earthquakes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be harmed.  Our corporate headquarters, including a substantial portion of our research and development operations, are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity and a potential
terrorist target. In addition, we own facilities for the manufacture of products using our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technologies in Huntsville, Alabama and own and lease offices in Hyderabad, India. There are no backup facilities
for our manufacturing operations located in Huntsville, Alabama. In the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, or terrorist event in any of these locations, our ability to manufacture and supply materials for drug
candidates in development and our ability to meet our manufacturing obligations to our customers would be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Our collaborative partners may also be
subject to catastrophic events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business,
results of operations and financial condition from a major earthquake or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, sustained loss of power, terrorist activity or other disaster, and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. In addition, our
insurance coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for actual losses from any interruption of our business that may occur.  We have implemented certain anti-takeover measures, which make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. 
Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third
party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions include:   


 
•
 
 establishment of a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board may be elected at one time; 
 


 
•
 
 lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect
director candidates;   


 
•
 
 the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a
takeover attempt; 
  46 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders;
  


 
•
 
 establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by
stockholders at stockholder meetings; and   


 
•
 
 limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. 
Further, provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a
third party from acquiring us. These provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities or initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for
their shares in the acquisition over the then current market prices. We also have a change of control severance benefit plan which provides for certain cash severance, stock award acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are
terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. This severance plan could discourage a third party from acquiring us.  The price of our common stock is expected to remain volatile.  Our
stock price is volatile. During the year ended December 31, 2011, based on closing bid prices on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, our stock price ranged from $12.53 to $4.22 per share. We expect our stock price to remain volatile. In addition,
as our convertible notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our notes. Also, interest rate fluctuations can affect the price of our
convertible notes. A variety of factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock or notes, including:   


 
•
 
 announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical studies and those of our collaboration partners, including data regarding
efficacy and safety, delays in clinical development, regulatory approval or commercial launch;   


 
•
 
 announcements by collaboration partners as to their plans or expectations related to drug candidates and approved drugs in which we have a substantial
economic interest;   


 
•
 
 announcements regarding terminations or disputes under our collaboration agreements; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in our results of operations;   


 
•
 
 developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including intellectual property litigation or entering into intellectual property license
agreements and the costs associated with those arrangements;   


 
•
 
 announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products that may compete with our approved products or products under development;
  


 
•
 
 announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 hedging activities by purchasers of our convertible notes; 
 


 
•
 
 litigation brought against us or third parties to whom we have indemnification obligations; 
 


 
•
 
 public concern as to the safety of drug formulations developed by us or others; and 
 


 
•
 
 general market conditions. 
  47 


Table of Contents


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments  None.   


Item 2.
Properties  California
 We lease a 102,283 square foot facility in the Mission Bay Area of San Francisco, California (Mission Bay
Facility), under an operating lease which expires in 2020. In November 2010, we moved into the Mission Bay Facility relocating all of our functions from the San Carlos, California facility (San Carlos Facility), including our corporate
headquarters and research and development for our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technology operations. In December 2011, we expanded our lease of the Mission Bay Facility to include an additional 24,002 square feet of space. However, we
retain the right to terminate the lease expansion on May 31, 2013. If we do not exercise the early termination right, the lease for the expanded space will expire in 2020, on the same date as the original lease agreement for the Mission Bay
Facility.  Our lease for approximately 100,000 square feet of the San Carlos Facility is under a capital lease which
expires in 2016. We have subleased a portion of the San Carlos Facility and are currently seeking one or more subtenants for the remaining space.  Alabama  We currently own three facilities consisting of approximately
149,333 square feet in Huntsville, Alabama, which house laboratories as well as administrative, clinical and commercial manufacturing facilities for our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technology operations. 
India  We own a research
and development facility consisting of approximately 88,000 square feet, near Hyderabad, India. In addition, we lease approximately 504 square feet of office space in Hyderabad, India, under a one-year operating lease that will expire in
2012.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings, including the proceedings described specifically below. We are not currently a party to or aware of any proceedings that we believe will have,
individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  On
November 18, 2009, the Research Foundation of the State University of New York (SUNY) filed an action against Nektar in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York. SUNY seeks to recover amounts it alleges it is owed
pursuant to a technology licensing contract between Nektar and SUNY. We dispute SUNY’s claims. Discovery in the matter is continuing and a “trial ready” date has been set for September 1, 2012. We believe that SUNY’s claims
are without merit. No reasonable estimate of the possible loss or range of loss can be made at this time and no liabilities have been recorded for this matter on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
 


Item 4.
[Removed and Reserved] 
  48 


Table of Contents
PART II   


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 
Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “NKTR.” The table below sets forth the high and low
closing sales prices for our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market during the periods indicated.   












 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2010:
  



  




 1st Quarter
  
$
15.52
  
  
$
9.39
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
15.58
  
  
 
11.25
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
15.21
  
  
 
11.60
  

 4th Quarter
  
 
15.88
  
  
 
12.30
  

 Year Ended December 31, 2011:
  



  




 1st Quarter
  
$
12.53
  
  
$
8.58
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
10.44
  
  
 
7.22
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
7.65
  
  
 
4.85
  

 4th Quarter
  
 
5.62
  
  
 
4.22
  
 Holders of Record  As of February 24, 2012, there were approximately 251 holders of record of our common stock. 
Dividend Policy  We have
never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently expect to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the
foreseeable future.  There were no sales of unregistered securities and there were no common stock repurchases made during the
year ended December 31, 2011.  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 
Information regarding our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2011 is disclosed in Item 12 “Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference from our proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Performance Measurement Comparison  The material in this section is being
furnished and shall not be deemed “filed” with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall the material in this section be deemed to be incorporated by
reference in any registration statement or other document filed with the SEC under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.  The following graph compares, for the five year period ended December 31, 2011, the cumulative total stockholder return (change in stock price plus reinvested dividends) of our common stock with
(i) the NASDAQ Composite Index, (ii) the NASDAQ Pharmaceutical Index, (iii) the RGD SmallCap Pharmaceutical Index, (iv) the NASDAQ Biotechnology Index and (v) the RDG SmallCap Biotechnology Index. Measurement points are the
last trading day of each of our fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, December 31, 2008, December 31, 
  49 


Table of Contents

2009, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2006 in the common stock of the Company, the NASDAQ Composite Index, the
Nasdaq Pharmaceutical Index, the RGD SmallCap Pharmaceutical Index, the NASDAQ Biotechnology Index and the RDG SmallCap Biotechnology Index and assumes reinvestment of any dividends. The stock price performance in the graph is not intended to
forecast or indicate future stock price performance.  


  50 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION  (In thousands, except per
share information)  The selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read together with the consolidated
financial statements and related notes, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the other information contained herein. 
 
























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Statements of Operations Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Revenue:
  



 



 



 



 




 Product sales(1)
  
$
24,864
  
 
$
27,412
  
 
$
30,116
  
 
$
37,799
  
 
$
177,026
  

 Royalty revenues
  
 
10,327
  
 
 
7,255
  
 
 
5,172
  
 
 
3,456
  
 
 
3,729
  

 License, collaboration and other revenue(2)
  
 
36,289
  
 
 
124,372
  
 
 
36,643
  
 
 
48,930
  
 
 
92,272
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
71,480
  
 
 
159,039
  
 
 
71,931
  
 
 
90,185
  
 
 
273,027
  

 Total operating costs and expenses(3)
  
 
195,417
  
 
 
187,294
  
 
 
167,063
  
 
 
172,837
  
 
 
309,175
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from operations
  
 
(123,937
) 
 
 
(28,255
) 
 
 
(95,132
) 
 
 
(82,652
) 
 
 
(36,148
) 

 Gain on debt extinguishment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50,149
  
 
 
—  
  

 Interest and other income (expense), net
  
 
(9,023
) 
 
 
(8,802
) 
 
 
(7,640
) 
 
 
(2,639
) 
 
 
4,696
  

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
 
1,018
  
 
 
881
  
 
 
(253
) 
 
 
(806
) 
 
 
1,309
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  
$
(133,978
) 
 
$
(37,938
) 
 
$
(102,519
) 
 
$
(34,336
) 
 
$
(32,761
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted net loss per share(4)
  
$
(1.19
) 
 
$
(0.40
) 
 
$
(1.11
) 
 
$
(0.37
) 
 
$
(0.36
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares used in computing basic and diluted net loss per share(4)
  
 
112,942
  
 
 
94,079
  
 
 
92,772
  
 
 
92,407
  
 
 
91,876
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash, cash equivalents and investments
  
$
414,936
  
 
$
315,932
  
 
$
396,211
  
 
$
378,994
  
 
$
482,353
  

 Working capital
  
$
1,174
  
 
$
289,871
  
 
$
260,650
  
 
$
337,846
  
 
$
425,191
  

 Total assets
  
$
606,550
  
 
$
521,225
  
 
$
575,518
  
 
$
560,536
  
 
$
725,103
  

 Deferred revenue
  
$
127,831
  
 
$
145,347
  
 
$
192,372
  
 
$
65,577
  
 
$
80,969
  

 Convertible subordinated notes
  
$
214,955
  
 
$
214,955
  
 
$
214,955
  
 
$
214,955
  
 
$
315,000
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
$
21,741
  
 
$
22,585
  
 
$
23,344
  
 
$
25,585
  
 
$
27,543
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
$
(1,398,525
) 
 
$
(1,264,547
) 
 
$
(1,226,609
) 
 
$
(1,124,090
) 
 
$
(1,089,754
) 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
$
197,811
  
 
$
90,662
  
 
$
102,367
  
 
$
190,154
  
 
$
214,439
  
  


(1)
2007 product sales include commercial manufacturing revenue from Exubera bulk dry powder insulin and Exubera inhalers. 


(2)
2007 collaboration and other revenue included Exubera commercialization readiness revenue. 


(3)
Operating costs and expenses includes the Gain on sale of pulmonary assets of $69.6 million in 2008 and the Gain on termination of collaborative agreements, net of
$79.2 million in 2007. 


(4)
Basic and diluted net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. 
  51 


Table of Contents
The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this section as well as factors described in
“Part I, Item 1A — Risk Factors.”   


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Overview  Strategic
Direction of Our Business  We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company developing a pipeline of drug candidates
that utilize our PEGylation and advanced polymer conjugate technology platforms, which are designed to improve the benefits of drugs for patients. Our current proprietary pipeline is comprised of drug candidates across a number of therapeutic areas
including oncology, pain, anti-infectives, anti-viral and immunology. Our research and development activities involve small molecule drugs, peptides and other potential biologic drug candidates. We create our innovative drug candidates by using our
proprietary advanced polymer conjugate technologies and expertise to modify the chemical structure of drugs to create new molecular entities. Polymer chemistry is a science focused on the synthesis or bonding of polymer architectures with drug
molecules to alter the properties of a molecule when it is bonded with polymers. Additionally, we may utilize established pharmacologic targets to engineer a new drug candidate relying on a combination of the known properties of these targets and
our proprietary polymer chemistry technology and expertise. Our drug candidates are designed to improve the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, half-life, bioavailability, metabolism or distribution of drugs and improve the overall benefits and use
of a drug for the patient. Our objective is to apply our advanced polymer conjugate technology platform to create new drug candidates in multiple therapeutic areas that address large potential markets. 
Our most advanced proprietary product candidate, NKTR-118, is a peripheral opioid antagonist that is currently being evaluated for the
treatment of opioid-induced constipation. We are a party to an exclusive worldwide license agreement with AstraZeneca for the global development and commercialization of NKTR-118 and NKTR-119. NKTR-119 is an early stage research and development
program that is designed to combine various opioids with NKTR-118. On March 15, 2011, AstraZeneca announced enrollment of the first patient in Phase 3 clinical studies for NKTR-118 that AstraZeneca calls the KODIAC study. This Phase 3 clinical
program is designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of NKTR-118 as a medicine to relieve opioid-induced constipation, a common side effect of prescription opioids when used for chronic pain management. The outcome of the KODIAC study will
have a substantial impact on our financial condition as we are entitled to $235.0 million in regulatory filing and commercial launch milestones. If the KODIAC study is successful and AstraZeneca files for regulatory approval with the FDA and the
European Medicines Agency (EMA), Nektar will be entitled to $95.0 million of these milestones. We will be entitled to the remaining $140.0 million of these milestones if NKTR-118 is approved by the FDA and EMA and commercial launch is achieved in
the U.S. and one major country in the European Union (EU). Following the commercial launch of NKTR-118, we are entitled to significant and escalating double-digit royalties varying by country of sale and based on the level of annual net sales.
Therefore, the results from the KODIAC study, the timing and outcome of approval review of NKTR-118 by the FDA and EMA, the timing of the commercial launch of NKTR-118 (if approved), and the level of NKTR-118 sales, will have a significant impact on
our financial condition and future business prospects.  Our second most advanced drug candidate, NKTR-102, is a
next-generation topoisomerase I inhibitor, currently being evaluated as a single-agent therapy in a Phase 3 open-label, randomized, multicenter clinical study in patients with metastatic breast cancer. This Phase 3 clinical study, which we call the
BEACON study (BrEAst Cancer Outcomes with NKTR-102), was initiated by us in December 2011. The BEACON study is scheduled to enroll approximately 840 patients with metastatic breast cancer. The BEACON study will require a substantial investment over
the next three years. In the first quarter of 2012, we are also completing an expanded Phase 2 clinical study for NKTR-102 in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. The original Phase 2

  52 


Table of Contents

clinical study was completed in mid-2010 and we further expanded this study to enroll up to 110 additional women with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer who had progressed after prior treatment
with Doxil® (doxorubicin HCl liposome injection). In November 2011, we announced that enrollment in this
expanded Phase 2 study was slower than anticipated because of a shortage of Doxil® related to serious
manufacturing issues being experienced by the manufacturer and supplier of Doxil®. As of February 2012,
approximately 94 of the planned 110 patients had been enrolled in the study. We are currently in the process of compiling and performing verification procedures on certain top-line results (i.e. objective tumor response rate) from the patients
enrolled to date. Results from this study and communication with government health authorities in both the United States and EU, will guide our future development and regulatory strategy for NKTR-102 in ovarian cancer. 
We also have a significant collaboration with Bayer Healthcare LLC (Bayer) for Amikacin Inhale, an inhaled solution of amikacin, an
aminoglycoside antibiotic, that has completed Phase 2 development. Preparations for a Phase 3 clinical study, which we currently expect to start in the second half of 2012, are continuing. The program is significantly behind schedule due to our plan
with Bayer to finalize the design of the nebulizer device for commercial manufacturing prior to initiating Phase 3 clinical development, with the objective of commencing Phase 3 clinical trials as soon as possible following completion of this work.
We expect to continue to make significant investments over the next two years in establishing manufacturing capability for the nebulizer device necessary to support the Phase 3 clinical study of this drug candidate and, if such study is successful
and the drug candidate is approved by government health authorities, the commercial supply of the nebulizer device.  While the
late stage clinical development programs described above are key elements of the future success of our company, we believe it is critically important that we continue to make substantial investments in our earlier stage drug candidate pipeline. For
example, we plan to advance NKTR-181 into Phase 2 clinical trials in 2012 and we also plan to file an investigational new drug application (IND) for NKTR-192 in 2012. While we believe that our substantial investment in research and development has
the potential to create significant value if one or more of our drug candidates demonstrates positive clinical results and/or receives regulatory approval in one or more major markets, drug research and development is an inherently uncertain process
and there is a high risk of failure at every stage prior to approval and the timing and outcome of clinical trial results is extremely difficult to predict. Clinical development successes and failures can have a disproportionate positive or negative
impact on our scientific and medical prospects, financial prospects, financial condition, and market value.  Historically, we
have entered into a number of license and supply contracts under which we manufactured and supplied our proprietary PEGylation reagents on a cost-plus or fixed price basis. Our current strategy is to manufacture and supply PEGylation reagents to
support our proprietary drug candidates or our third party collaborators where we have a strategic development and commercialization relationship or where we derive substantial economic benefit. As a result, whenever possible, we are renegotiating
or not seeking renewal of legacy manufacturing supply arrangements that do not include a strategic development or commercialization component. For example, in October 2010, we entered into a supply, dedicated suite and manufacturing guarantee
agreement with Amgen, Inc. and Amgen Manufacturing, Limited, which has significantly amended economic and other terms in the non-exclusive supply and license agreement we previously entered into with Amgen in 1995. In addition, in December 2010, we
entered into an amended manufacturing and supply agreement with Merck (through its acquisition of Schering-Plough Corporation) to provide for transfer to an alternative manufacturer and revised economics for an interim supply arrangement until that
transition is completed. 
  53 


Table of Contents
Key Developments and Trends in Liquidity and Capital Resources 
At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $414.9 million in cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities and
$239.9 million in indebtedness. We have $215.0 million in outstanding convertible subordinated notes due September 2012. We have no material credit facility or other material committed sources of capital. We expect the clinical development of our
proprietary drug candidates including NKTR-102, NKTR-061, NKTR-181, and NKTR-192 will continue to require significant investments in order to advance through the clinic with the objective of entering into a collaboration partnership or obtaining
regulatory approval. Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through cash from licensing, collaboration and manufacturing agreements and public and private placements of debt and equity securities. While in the past we have received
a number of significant payments from license and collaboration agreements and other significant transactions, we do not currently anticipate completing new transactions with substantial upfront payments in the near future. As discussed above, the
success of the KODIAC study is critical to providing cash to fund our operations and there can be no assurance as to the outcome of this study.  On February 29, 2012, we sold all of our rights to receive future royalty payments on CIMZIA® and MIRCERA® in exchange for
$124.0 million. Additionally, we incurred approximately $4.5 million in transaction costs. While the net proceeds from this transaction will fund more than 50% of the September 2012 repayment obligation for the outstanding convertible notes, we
intend to pursue other financing alternatives before the convertible note maturity date which could include the sale of additional royalty interests from legacy agreements or term loan arrangements. Where we believe it is in the best interests of
the company and our stockholders, we are pursuing financing alternatives that are not dilutive to the ownership of our common stock security holders. However, if non-dilutive financing alternatives are not available to us on commercially reasonable
terms or at all, we could be required to pursue dilutive equity-based financing alternatives such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock. If we are not successful in raising additional funds through financing activities in 2012, we may
be required to reduce our research and development spending in one or more programs, as well as general and administrative expenses, in order to conserve working capital until additional funding becomes available either from our existing
collaborations, new collaboration partnerships or additional fundraising activities. Our substantial debt, the market price of our common stock, and the general economic and equity market climate, among other factors, could have material adverse
effects on our financial condition and could affect our ability to obtain short-term and long-term financing alternatives.  Results of
Operations  Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 
Revenue (in thousands, except percentages)   
































 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
2011 vs. 2010
 
 
Increase/(Decrease)
2010 vs. 2009
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
 
 
 

 Product sales
  
$
24,864
  
  
$
27,412
  
  
$
30,116
  
  
$
(2,548
) 
 
$
(2,704
) 
 
 
(9
)% 
 
 
(9
)% 

 Royalty revenues
  
 
10,327
  
  
 
7,255
  
  
 
5,172
  
  
 
3,072
  
 
 
2,083
  
 
 
42
% 
 
 
40
% 

 License, collaboration and other
  
 
36,289
  
  
 
124,372
  
  
 
36,643
  
  
 
(88,083
) 
 
 
87,729
  
 
 
(71
)% 
 
 
>100
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
$
71,480
  
  
$
159,039
  
  
$
71,931
  
  
$
(87,559
) 
 
$
87,108
  
 
 
(55
)% 
 
 
>100
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  54 


Table of Contents
Our revenue is derived from our collaboration agreements, under which we may receive product
sales revenue, royalties, license fees, milestone payments or contract research payments. Revenue is recognized when there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collection
is reasonably assured. Upfront fees received for license and collaborative agreements are recognized ratably over our expected performance period under the arrangement. As a result, there may be significant variations in the timing of receipt of
cash payments and our recognition of revenue. Management makes its best estimate of the period over which we expect to fulfill our performance obligations. Given the uncertainties in research and development collaborations, significant judgment is
required by management to determine the performance periods.  Product sales 
Product sales include cost-plus and fixed price manufacturing and supply agreements with our collaboration partners. Product sales
decreased during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 compared to the prior periods primarily as a result of decreased product demand from our collaboration partners due in part to the transfer of manufacturing activities to certain
collaboration partners. The timing of shipments is based on the demand and requirements of our collaboration partners and is not ratable throughout the year. We expect product sales to increase in 2012 compared with 2011. 
Royalty revenues  We receive royalty revenue from certain of our collaboration partners based on their net sales of commercial products. Royalty revenues increased during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
compared to the prior periods primarily as a result of the increase in royalties received from Roche’s
MIRCERA® and UCB Pharma’s CIMZIA® product sales.  During
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we recognized $8.3 million, $5.4 million, and $2.7 million, respectively, in aggregate royalties from net sales of MIRCERA® and CIMZIA®. As noted above,
in February 2012, we sold all of our rights to receive future royalty payments on CIMZIA® and MIRCERA®. However, although any future CIMZIA® and MIRCERA® royalties will
go directly to the purchaser of these royalty interests, as this transaction will be recorded as a liability that amortizes over the life of the estimated royalty payment period, we will continue to recognize the royalties as revenue, which we
expect to increase in 2012.  License, collaboration and other revenue 
License, collaboration and other revenue includes amortization of upfront payments and milestone payments received in connection with our
license and collaboration agreements and reimbursed research and development expenses. The level of license, collaboration and other revenue depends in part upon the estimated amortization period of the upfront payments, the achievement of
milestones, the continuation of existing collaborations, the amount of reimbursed research and development work, and entering into new collaboration agreements, if any.  License, collaboration and other revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to the complete recognition as of
December 31, 2010 of the $125.0 million upfront payment received in the fourth quarter of 2009 from AstraZeneca in connection with the NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 global license agreement. This decrease was partially offset by the recognition of a
$5.0 million license fee, $6.0 million in milestones earned under existing collaboration agreements, and increases in revenue recognized in 2011 from upfront payments received by us during 2010. 
We expect license, collaboration and other revenue in 2012 to be consistent with 2011. 
  55 


Table of Contents
For the year ended December 31, 2010, the increase in license, collaboration and other
revenue compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily attributable to recognition of the upfront payment received from AstraZeneca for NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 in the fourth quarter of 2009, contract research and other revenue from
AstraZeneca, and the recognition of the license extension option payment received from Roche in December 2009. Under the AstraZeneca license agreement and related technology transfer agreement, we recognized $101.4 million and
$23.6 million of the $125.0 million upfront payment and $6.5 million and $1.5 million of contract research and other revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We recognized $5.1 million and
$0.2 million, respectively, of the $31.0 million license extension option payment from Roche for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The timing and future success of our drug development programs and those of our collaboration partners are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. See “Part I, Item 1A —
Risk Factors” for discussion of the risks associated with the complex nature of our collaboration agreements. 
Revenue by geography  Revenue by geographic area is based on locations of our partners. The following table sets forth revenue by geographic area (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 United States
  
$
37,896
  
  
$
29,636
  
  
$
29,511
  

 European countries
  
 
33,584
  
  
 
129,403
  
  
 
42,420
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
$
71,480
  
  
$
159,039
  
  
$
71,931
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The decrease in revenue attributable to European countries for the year ended December 31, 2011
compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 and the increase in the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily attributable to the revenue we recognized from the AstraZeneca license
agreement.  Cost of goods sold (in thousands, except percentages) 
 
































 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
Increase/(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010

 
 
Increase/(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009

 
 
PercentageIncrease/(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010
 
 
PercentageIncrease/(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 
 
 

 Cost of goods sold
  
$
21,891
  
 
$
25,667
  
 
$
30,948
  
 
$
(3,776
) 
 
$
(5,281
) 
 
 
(15
)% 
 
 
(17
)% 

 Product gross profit
  
 
2,973
  
 
 
1,745
  
 
 
(832
) 
 
 
1,228
  
 
 
2,577
  
 
 
70
% 
 
 
>100
% 

 Product gross margin
  
 
12
% 
 
 
6
% 
 
 
(3
)% 
 



 



 



 



 The decrease in cost of goods sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year
ended December 31, 2010 is primarily due to the $2.5 million decrease in product sales in 2011 and an increase in overall commercial and proprietary manufacturing activity in 2011 compared to 2010 that resulted in decreased costs per unit. The
increase in product gross margin during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily due to the different mix of products sold and the decreased costs per unit in 2011 resulting from increased
manufacturing activity. 
  56 


Table of Contents
The decrease in cost of goods sold during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to
the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily due to the $2.7 million decrease in product sales and the inclusion in cost of goods sold in 2009 of a $2.1 million success fee that became due to one of our former consulting firms in
2009. The increase to product gross margin during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily attributable to the $2.1 million success fee included in cost of goods sold in 2009.
 As a result of the fixed cost base associated with our manufacturing activities, we expect product gross margin to fluctuate
in future periods depending on the level of manufacturing orders from our customers. However, due to the fixed price nature of certain of our significant supply agreements, we expect that gross margin will decrease in 2012 compared to 2011.
 Research and development expense (in thousands, except percentages) 
 
































 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
Increase/(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010

 
 
Increase/(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009

 
 
PercentageIncrease/(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010
 
 
PercentageIncrease/(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 
 
 

 Research and development expense
 
$
126,766
  
 
$
108,065
  
 
$
95,109
  
 
$
18,701
  
 
$
12,956
  
 
 
17
% 
 
 
14
% 
 Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, and
stock-based compensation, clinical study costs, direct costs of outside research, materials, supplies, licenses and fees. Research and development expense also includes certain overhead allocations consisting of various support and facilities
related costs.  The increase in research and development expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the
year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to a $7.5 million increase in direct research and development program costs and related materials costs, a $3.0 million increase in salaries and employee benefits resulting from increased
headcount to support our expanded clinical efforts, and a $6.3 million increase in support and facilities-related costs, which includes increased non-cash depreciation and non-cash rent expenses related to our new facility in the Mission Bay Area of
San Francisco, California (Mission Bay Facility).  The increase in research and development expense for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily attributable to an $8.4 million increase in salaries and employee benefits due to increased headcount to support our expanded clinical development efforts and
further investment in and development of proprietary drug candidates in our research and development pipeline. The increase also includes a $3.8 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation expense due to our higher stock price and
increased headcount, a $3.1 million increase to facilities and equipment costs primarily due to the completion of our India research facility and to the move to our Mission Bay Facility, and a $2.7 million increase in supplies, including
clinical trial materials. These expense increases were partially offset by a $5.5 million decrease in outside services, including contract research organizations, due primarily to lower expenses for the NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 programs as a
result of our successful completion of Phase 2 clinical studies and collaboration with AstraZeneca pursuant to the license agreement entered into in September 2009. 
  57 


Table of Contents
We utilize our employee and infrastructure resources across multiple development projects as
well as our research programs directed towards identifying drug candidates based on our technology platform. The following table shows expenses incurred for preclinical study support, contract manufacturing for clinical supplies, clinical and
regulatory services provided by third parties and direct materials costs for each of our drug candidates. The table also presents other costs and overhead consisting of personnel, facilities and other indirect costs (in thousands): 
 


















 
  
ClinicalStudy 
Status(1)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 NKTR-102 (topoisomerase I inhibitor-polymer conjugate)(2)
  
Phase 3
  
$
13,106
  
  
$
14,730
  
  
$
17,509
  

 BAY41-6551 (Amikacin Inhale)(3)
  
Completed Phase 2
  
 
11,389
  
  
 
12,606
  
  
 
13,482
  

 NKTR-181 (mu-opioid analgesic molecule for chronic pain)
  
Phase 1
  
 
9,747
  
  
 
4,389
  
  
 
—  
  

 NKTR-192 (mu-opioid analgesic molecule for acute pain)
  
Pre-clinical
  
 
3,100
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 NKTR-118 (orally available peripheral opioid antagonist)(4)
  
Phase 3
  
 
988
  
  
 
3,439
  
  
 
9,607
  

 Other product candidates
  
Various
  
 
12,071
  
  
 
9,597
  
  
 
9,377
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total third party and direct materials costs
  

  
 
50,401
  
  
 
44,761
  
  
 
49,975
  

 Personnel, overhead and other costs
  

  
 
59,433
  
  
 
48,736
  
  
 
36,672
  

 Stock-based compensation and depreciation
  

  
 
16,932
  
  
 
14,568
  
  
 
8,462
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Research and development expense
  

  
$
126,766
  
  
$
108,065
  
  
$
95,109
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Clinical Study Status definitions are provided in the chart found in Part I, Item 1. Business. 


(2)
In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, we made $11.2 million of prepayments to certain vendors in our BEACON study 


(3)
Partnered with Bayer Healthcare LLC in August 2007. As part of the Novartis Pulmonary Asset Sale, we retained an exclusive license to this technology for the
development and commercialization of this drug candidate. 


(4)
Partnered with AstraZeneca in 2009. In general, all development costs incurred by us after partnering with AstraZeneca are reimbursed by AstraZeneca.
 We expect research and development expense to substantially increase over the next several years. We plan to
continue to advance NKTR-102 in the BEACON study (metastatic breast cancer) and in Phase 2 clinical studies in ovarian and colorectal cancers. Our expanded Phase 2 clinical study in platinum resistant/refractory ovarian cancer patients is expected
to continue throughout 2012. Based on our compilation and review of preliminary interim results in the expanded Phase 2 study in ovarian cancer and our communications with government health authorities, we will decide the future of our clinical
development efforts in this indication. At the same time, we continue to advance the Phase 2 clinical study for NKTR-102 in colorectal cancer patients. We will be funding all of the clinical development costs for NKTR-102 without reimbursement from
a collaboration partner for the foreseeable future. The clinical development costs for NKTR-102 will be significant. Although we are still in the early stages of the BEACON study, we estimate that the total third party and direct material costs over
the life of the BEACON study will range from approximately $110.0 million to $120.0 million, of which $14.0 million was paid as of December 31, 2011, and that it will be completed around the end of 2014. We are unable to estimate the dates or
costs to complete the clinical development efforts for the ovarian and colorectal cancer indications in which we are studying NKTR-102.   
  58 


Table of Contents
In addition to our NKTR-102 development activities, in 2012, we plan to initiate a Phase 2
clinical study for NKTR-181 that we expect to complete in 2013. We also plan to invest in an initial Phase 1 clinical study for NKTR-192 that we expect to complete in 2012. In addition, we plan to continue to make substantial investments to support
the clinical and commercial manufacturing preparation and scale-up for the nebulizer devices to supply Bayer for the Amikacin Inhale program. Under our collaboration agreement with Bayer, we are responsible for all clinical and commercial supply of
the nebulizer devices for Amikacin Inhale. We do not expect to have any significant future research and development costs associated with NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 as AstraZeneca is responsible for all further development and commercialization costs for
these drug candidates.  In addition to our drug candidates that we plan to have in clinical development during 2012 and
beyond, we believe it is vitally important to continue our substantial investment in a diverse pipeline of new drug candidates to continue to build on the value of our business. Our discovery research organization is identifying new drug candidates
by applying our technology platform to a wide range of molecule classes, including small molecules and large proteins, peptides and antibodies, across multiple therapeutic areas. We plan to continue to advance our most promising early research drug
candidates into preclinical development with the objective to advance these early stage research programs to human clinical studies over the next several years.  Our expenditures on current and future preclinical and clinical development programs are subject to numerous uncertainties in timing and cost to completion. In order to advance our drug candidates through
clinical development, the drug candidates are tested in numerous preclinical safety, toxicology and efficacy studies. We then conduct clinical studies for our drug candidates that take several years to complete. The cost and time required to
complete clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a clinical development program as a result of a variety of factors, including but not limited to:   


 
•
 
 the number of patients required to fully enroll a clinical study; 
 


 
•
 
 the length of time required to enroll clinical study participants; 
 


 
•
 
 the number and location of sites included in the clinical studies; 
 


 
•
 
 the clinical studies designs required by the health authorities (i.e. primary and secondary end points); 
 


 
•
 
 the potential for changing standards of care for the target patient population; 
 


 
•
 
 the competition for patient recruitment from competitive drug candidates being studied in the same clinical setting; 
 


 
•
 
 the costs of producing supplies of the product candidates needed for clinical trials and regulatory submissions; 
 


 
•
 
 the safety and efficacy profile of the drug candidate; 
 


 
•
 
 the use of clinical research organizations to assist with the management of the trials; and 
 


 
•
 
 the costs and timing of, and the ability to secure, approvals from government health authorities. 
Furthermore, our strategy includes entering into collaborations with third parties to participate in the development and
commercialization of some of our drug candidates such as those collaborations that we have already completed for NKTR-118, NKTR-119 and Amikacin Inhale. In these situations, the clinical development program and process for a drug candidate and the
estimated completion date will largely be under the control of that third party and not under our control. We cannot forecast with any degree of certainty which of our drug candidates will be subject to future collaborations or how such arrangements
would affect our development plans or capital requirements.   
  59 


Table of Contents
The risks and uncertainties associated with our research and development projects are
discussed more fully in Item 1A — Risk Factors. Other than for the BEACON study, due to the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine with any degree of certainty the duration and completion costs of our research and
development projects, anticipated completion dates or when and to what extent we will receive cash inflows from a collaboration arrangement or the commercialization of a drug candidate. 
General and administrative expense (in thousands, except percentages) 
 
































 
  
 
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
2011 vs. 2010
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
2010 vs. 2009
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
  
 
 

 General and administrative expense
  
$
46,760
  
  
$
40,986
  
  
$
41,006
  
  
$
5,774
  
  
$
(20
) 
 
 
14
% 
 
 
<1
% 
 General and administrative expenses are associated with administrative staffing, business development,
finance, marketing, and legal.  For the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010,
general and administrative expense increased by $2.7 million due to a payment obligation related to the settlement of a commercial litigation matter. In addition, general and administrative expense increased due to personnel-related costs, support
and facilities-related costs, and other administrative costs. In 2012, after excluding the impact of the 2011 commercial litigation settlement, we expect general and administrative expenses to increase modestly compared to 2011. 
General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 remained at a consistent level compared to the year ended
December 31, 2009.  Impairment of long lived assets (in thousands except percentages) 
 
































 
  
 
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
2011 vs. 2010
 
 
Increase/(Decrease)
2010 vs. 2009
 
  
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 

 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
 
  
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
 
  
 

 Impairment of long-lived assets
  
$
—  
  
  
$
12,576
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(12,576
) 
 
$
12,576
  
  
 
(100
%) 
 
 
n/a
  
 During the year ended December 31, 2010, we relocated all of our operations previously located in
San Carlos, California, including our corporate headquarters, to our Mission Bay Facility in San Francisco, California. We determined that the carrying value of the San Carlos facility exceeded its fair value based on a discounted
cash flow model and an impairment charge of $12.6 million was recognized as a result. 
  60 


Table of Contents
Interest income (in thousands except percentages) 
 
































 
  
 
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
2011 vs. 2010
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
2010 vs. 2009
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
  
 
 

 Interest income
  
$
2,244
  
  
$
1,545
  
  
$
3,688
  
  
$
699
  
  
$
(2,143
) 
 
 
45
% 
 
 
(58
)% 
 The increase in interest income for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended
December 31, 2010 is a result of higher average cash and investment balances partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments. 
The decrease in interest income for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily
attributable to lower interest rates earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments.  Interest
expense (in thousands except percentages)   
































 
  
 
 
  
Increase/(Decrease)
2011 vs. 2010
 
 
Increase/(Decrease)
2010 vs. 2009
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2011 vs. 2010
 
 
PercentageIncrease/
(Decrease)2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
 
 
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
 
 
 

 Interest expense
  
$
10,223
  
  
$
11,174
  
  
$
12,176
  
  
$
(951
) 
 
$
(1,002
) 
 
 
(9
)% 
 
 
(8
)% 
 The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 30, 2011 compared to the year ended
December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to the complete amortization of deferred financing costs during 2010 from our 3.25% convertible subordinated notes due September 2012. 
As noted above, in February 2012, we sold all of our rights to receive future royalty payments on CIMZIA® and MIRCERA®. Although we are required to make payments to the purchaser of these rights only in certain situations, this transaction will be recorded as a liability. While we do
not anticipate making any cash payments representing interest, we will impute interest on the transaction and record interest expense at the effective interest rate of approximately 17%. As a result, we expect interest expense in 2012 to increase
significantly from 2011.  The decrease in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year
ended December 31, 2009 is primarily attributable to the complete amortization of deferred financing costs during 2010 from our 3.25% convertible subordinated notes due September 2012 and decreased interest expense from capital leases.
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  We have financed our operations primarily through revenue from product sales, royalties and research and development contracts, as well as public and private placements of debt and equity. As of
December 31, 2011, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities of $414.9 million and indebtedness of $239.9 million, including $215.0 million of convertible subordinated notes, $17.0 million in
capital lease obligations and $7.9 million in other liabilities. Additionally at December 31, 2011, we had letter of credit arrangements with certain financial institutions and vendors, including our landlord, totaling $2.4 million. These
letters of credit will expire during 2012 and are secured by investments of similar amounts. We have no material credit facility or other material committed sources of capital. 
  61 


Table of Contents
On February 29, 2012, we sold all of our rights to receive future
royalty payments on CIMZIA® and MIRCERA® in exchange for $124.0 million. Additionally, we incurred approximately $4.5 million in transaction costs. While the net payments from this transaction will fund more
than 50% of the September 2012 repayment obligation for the outstanding convertible notes, we intend to pursue other financing alternatives before the convertible note maturity date which could include the sale of additional royalty interests or
term loan arrangements. We may also seek from time to time to purchase or retire our outstanding convertible notes through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other of our securities in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions
and/or a tender offer, if we can do so on attractive terms. We will evaluate financing alternatives, if any, in light of the then-existing market conditions. Where we believe it is in the best interests of the company and our stockholders, we are
pursuing financing alternatives that are not dilutive to the ownership of our common stock security holders. However, if non-dilutive financing alternatives are not available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we could be required to
pursue dilutive equity-based financing alternatives such as an offering of convertible debt or common stock. In addition, we expect the Phase 3 clinical trials of NKTR-102 to require particularly significant resources because we anticipate bearing a
majority or all of the development costs for that drug candidate. If we are not successful in raising additional funds through financing activities in 2012, we may be required to reduce our research and development spending in one or more programs,
as well as general and administrative expenses, in order to conserve working capital until additional funding becomes available either from our existing collaborations or additional fundraising activities. Our substantial debt, the market price of
our common stock, and the general economic and equity market climate, among other factors, could substantially weaken our financial condition and could reduce or eliminate our ability to obtain short-term and long-term financing alternatives. Please
refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, “We may need to raise substantial additional capital to repay the $215.0 million in convertible notes due in September 2012 and fund our future operations, and we may be unable to secure such
capital without dilutive financing transactions” and “We have substantial future capital requirements and there is a risk we may not have access to sufficient capital to meet our current business plan. If we do not receive
substantial milestone payments from our existing collaboration agreements, execute new high value collaboration partnerships, or if we are unable to raise additional capital in one or more financing transactions, we would be unable to continue our
current level of investment in research and development.”  Due to the potential for continued uncertainty in the
credit markets in 2012, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our investments in marketable securities. These investments are generally held to maturity, which is less than two years. However, if the need arose to liquidate
such securities before maturity, we may experience losses on liquidation. At December 31, 2011, the average time to maturity of the investments held in our portfolio was approximately ten months and the maturity of any single investment did not
exceed twenty-four months. To date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. We believe that, even
allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. 
Cash flows from operating activities  Cash flows used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled $113.7 million, which includes $7.0 million for semi-annual interest payments on our convertible subordinated
notes, $11.2 million of prepayments to certain vendors in our BEACON study, and $125.0 million of other net operating cash uses, partially offset by the receipt of $29.5 million from collaboration agreements, of which $16.5 million was included in
accounts receivable at December 31, 2010 resulting from an upfront payment obligation arising from an amendment to one of our manufacturing and supply agreements. We expect that cash flows used in operating activities, excluding upfront
payments received, if any, will increase in 2012 as a result of increased spending on our proprietary research and development programs and, in particular, our BEACON study. 
  62 


Table of Contents
During the year ended December 31, 2010, net cash used in operating activities totaled
$55.9 million, which primarily consisted of spending on operating costs and expenses and includes $7.0 million for interest payments on our convertible subordinated notes, and was partially offset by a $50.0 million upfront payment
received from Amgen under the supply, dedicated suite and manufacturing guarantee agreement that we entered into with Amgen in October 2010.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, net cash provided by operating activities totaled $39.7 million, which included the $125.0 million upfront payment received from AstraZeneca under
the license agreement we entered into for NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 and a $31.0 million license extension payment received from Roche in December 2009.  Cash flows from investing activities  We purchased
$9.7 million, $31.5 million, and $16.4 million of property and equipment in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Additionally, we made advanced payments on property and equipment purchases of
$4.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. Our capital expenditures increased in 2010, as we constructed the leasehold improvements for the Mission Bay Facility and completed our research and development facility in Hyderabad,
India. We expect our capital expenditures in 2012 to be consistent with 2011.  On December 31, 2008, we completed the
sale of certain pulmonary assets to Novartis for a purchase price of $115.0 million. We paid $0.2 million in transaction costs related to the sale during the year ended December 31, 2008 and $4.4 million in transaction costs
during the year ended December 31, 2009.  Cash flows used in financing activities 
On January 24, 2011, we completed a public offering of our common stock with gross proceeds of approximately $220.4 million. As part
of the public offering, we incurred approximately $0.6 million in legal and accounting fees, filing fees, and other offering expenses.  We received proceeds from issuance of common stock related to our employee option and stock purchase plans of $4.5 million, $8.9 million, and $4.8 million in the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Contractual Obligations (in thousands) 
 
























 
  
Payments Due by Period
 

 
  
Total
 
  
<=1 Yr2012
 
  
2-3 Yrs2013-2014
 
  
4-5 Yrs2015-2016
 
  
2017+
 

 Obligations(1)
  



  



  



  



  




 Convertible subordinated notes, including interest
  
$
221,941
  
  
$
221,941
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Capital leases, including interest(2)
  
 
24,662
  
  
 
5,028
  
  
 
10,320
  
  
 
9,314
  
  
 
—  
  

 Operating leases(3)
  
 
22,000
  
  
 
480
  
  
 
1,709
  
  
 
7,444
  
  
 
12,367
  

 Purchase commitments(4)
  
 
10,073
  
  
 
10,073
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Litigation settlement, including interest
  
 
5,000
  
  
 
1,000
  
  
 
2,000
  
  
 
2,000
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
283,676
  
  
$
238,522
  
  
$
14,029
  
  
$
18,758
  
  
$
12,367
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The above table does not include certain commitments and contingencies which are discussed in Note 7 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



(2)
 These amounts primarily result from capital lease obligations arising from our office space lease at 201 Industrial Road in San Carlos,
California. As of November 29, 2010, we have ceased use of this space as a 
  63 


Table of Contents


 

result of the relocation of all of our California functions, including our corporate headquarters and an R&D center, to our Mission Bay Facility. We have subleased a portion of the San Carlos
Facility and are currently seeking one or more subtenants for the remaining space. This is further discussed in Note 6 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 


(3)
In November 2010, we moved into our Mission Bay Facility, which includes our corporate headquarters and an R&D center. Under the terms of the sublease we entered
into with Pfizer Inc. on September 30, 2009 for the Mission Bay Facility, we will begin making non-cancelable lease payments in 2014. On December 28 2011, we amended the sublease of the Mission Bay Facility to include an additional 24,002
square feet of space. Under the terms of the amendment, beginning January 1, 2012, we will begin making lease payments for this additional space of $40,000 per month until May 31, 2013. The sublease is discussed in Note 6 of
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 


(4)
Substantially all of this amount was subject to open purchase orders as of December 31, 2011 that were issued under existing contracts. This amount does not
represent any minimum contract termination liabilities for our existing contracts.  Given our current cash
requirements, we forecast that we will have sufficient cash to meet our net operating expense requirements and contractual obligations at least through December 31, 2012. We plan to continue to invest in the advancement of our research and
development drug candidate pipeline and our future cash requirements will depend upon the timing and results of these investments. Our capital needs will depend on many factors, including continued progress in our research and development programs,
progress with preclinical and clinical trials of our proprietary and partnered drug candidates, our ability to successfully enter into additional collaboration agreements for one or more of our proprietary drug candidates or intellectual property
that we control, the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, the costs of developing and scaling our clinical and commercial manufacturing operations, the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing
patent claims, the need to acquire licenses to new technologies and the status of competitive products.  Our substantial debt,
the market price of our securities, and the general economic climate, among other factors, could have material consequences for our financial condition and could affect our sources of short-term and long-term funding. Our ability to meet our ongoing
operating expenses and repay our outstanding indebtedness is dependent upon our and our partners’ ability to successfully complete clinical development of, obtain regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize new drugs. Even if we or
our partners are successful, we may require additional capital to continue to fund our operations and repay our debt obligations as they become due. There can be no assurance that additional funds, if and when required, will be available to us on
favorable terms, if at all.  Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 
We do not utilize off-balance sheet financing arrangements as a source of liquidity or financing. 
Critical Accounting Policies  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances,
the results of which form our basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources, and evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from those
estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have determined that for the periods reported in this report, the following accounting policies and estimates are critical in understanding our financial condition and results of our
operations. 
  64 


Table of Contents
Revenue Recognition 
License, collaboration and other research revenue is recognized based on the facts and circumstances of each contractual agreement and
includes amortization of upfront fees. We defer income under contractual agreements when we have further obligations that indicate that a separate earnings process has not been completed. Upfront fees are recognized ratably over the expected
performance period under each arrangement. Management makes its best estimate of the period over which we expect to fulfill our performance obligations, which may include technology transfer assistance, clinical development activities, or
manufacturing activities through the completion of clinical development or the termination or expiration of the collaboration agreement. Given the complexities and uncertainties of collaboration arrangements, significant judgment is required by
management to determine the duration of the performance period.  As of December 31, 2011, we had $41.1 million of
deferred upfront fees related to five collaboration agreements that are being amortized over 6 to 20 years, or an average of 12 years. For our collaboration agreements, our performance obligations may span the life of the agreement. For
these, the shortest reasonable period is the end of the development period (estimated to be 4 to 6 years) and the longest period is the contractual life of the agreement, which is generally 10-12 years from the first commercial sale. Given
the statistical probability of drug development success in the bio-pharmaceutical industry, drug development programs have only a 5% to 10% probability of reaching commercial success. If we had determined a longer or shorter amortization period was
appropriate, our annual upfront fee amortization for these agreements could be as low as $4.0 million or as high as $17.0 million as compared to the $5.4 million recognized in the year ended December 31, 2011. 
As of December 31, 2011, we also had $83.9 million of deferred upfront fees related to five license, manufacturing and supply
agreements that are being amortized over periods from 2 and 10 years. Our performance obligations for these agreements may include technology transfer assistance and/or back-up manufacturing and supply services for a specified period of time;
therefore, the time estimated to complete the performance obligations related to licenses is either specified or is much shorter than the collaboration agreements. We may experience delays in the execution of technology transfer plans, which may
result in a longer amortization period for applicable agreements.  Our original estimates are periodically evaluated to
determine if circumstances have caused the estimates to change and if so, amortization of revenue is adjusted prospectively. 
Stock-Based Compensation  We use the Black-Scholes option valuation model for the respective equity grant to determine the estimated fair value of our stock-based compensation arrangements on the date of grant (grant date fair
value) and expense this value, as adjusted for the estimated historical forfeiture rate, ratably over the service period of the option or performance period of the restricted stock unit award (RSU). The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires
the input of highly subjective assumptions. Because our employee stock options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect fair value
estimates, in management’s opinion, the existing models may not provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of our employee stock options or common stock purchased under our employee stock purchase plan. In addition, management
continually assesses the assumptions and methodologies used to calculate the estimated fair value of stock-based compensation. Circumstances may change and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to the
assumptions and methodologies, and which could materially impact our fair value determination, as well as our stock-based compensation expense. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Clinical Trial Accruals 
We record accruals for the estimated costs of our clinical trial activities performed by third parties. We generally accrue costs
associated with the start-up and reporting phases of the clinical trials ratably over the estimated duration of the start-up and reporting phases. If the actual timing of these phases varies from the estimate, we will adjust the accrual
prospectively. We accrue costs associated with the treatment phase of clinical trials based on the total estimated cost of the treatment phase on a per patient basis and we expense the per patient cost ratably based on patient enrollment in the
trials. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and recognized as expense as the related goods are delivered or the related services are
performed.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements  FASB Accounting Standards Update 2011-08, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), Testing Goodwill for Impairment 
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new accounting guidance intended to simplify goodwill
impairment testing. Entities will be allowed to perform a qualitative assessment on goodwill impairment to determine whether a quantitative assessment is necessary. This guidance is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning
January 1, 2012. We do not believe the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.   


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  Interest Rate and Market Risk  The primary objective of our investment
activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. Our investments in debt securities are subject to
interest rate risk. To minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in securities with maturities of two years or less and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. 
A hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.7 million decrease, less than 1%, in
the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2011. This potential change is based on sensitivity analyses performed on our investment securities at December 31, 2011. Actual results may differ materially. The same
hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an approximate $0.6 million decrease, less than 1%, in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2010. 
Due to the potential for continued uncertainty in the credit markets in 2012, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of
our investments in marketable securities. These investments are generally held to maturity, which is less than two years. However, if the need arose to liquidate such securities before maturity, we may experience losses on liquidation. As of
December 31, 2011, we held $399.6 million of available-for-sale investments, excluding money market funds, with an average time to maturity of ten months. To date we have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these
securities, but should such issues arise, we may be required to hold some, or all, of these securities until maturity. We believe that, even allowing for potential liquidity issues with respect to these securities, our remaining cash, cash
equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements, we currently do not intend to sell these securities
prior to maturity and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. Accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not
recorded any provisions for impairment. 
  66 


Table of Contents
Foreign Currency Risk  The majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, since a portion of our operations consists of research and development activities
outside the United States, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the Indian Rupee, and we therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk.  Our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures,
other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 
  67 


Table of Contents


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  NEKTAR THERAPEUTICS  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  








 
  
Page
 

 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
69
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
71
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the years in the three year period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
72
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31,
 2011
  
 
73
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
74
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
75
  

  68 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Nektar Therapeutics  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Nektar Therapeutics as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Nektar Therapeutics at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
Nektar Therapeutics’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated February 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  As discussed in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements, Nektar Therapeutics changed its method of accounting for revenue recognition effective January 1, 2011. 
                         
                                         
                                         
 /s/  ERNST & YOUNG LLP  Redwood City, California 
February 29, 2012 
  69 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Nektar Therapeutics  We have audited Nektar Therapeutics’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Nektar Therapeutics’ management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control
over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In our opinion, Nektar Therapeutics maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Nektar Therapeutics as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of Nektar Therapeutics and our report dated February 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.                                    
                                         
                                 /s/  ERNST &
YOUNG LLP  Redwood City, California  February 29, 2012 
  70 


Table of Contents
NEKTAR THERAPEUTICS 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(In thousands, except par value information)
 

ASSETS
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
15,312
  
 
$
17,755
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
225,856
  
 
 
298,177
  

 Accounts receivable, net of allowance of nil at December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
4,938
  
 
 
25,102
  

 Inventory
  
 
12,656
  
 
 
7,266
  

 Other current assets
  
 
17,944
  
 
 
5,679
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
276,706
  
 
 
353,979
  

 Long-term investments
  
 
173,768
  
 
 
—  
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
78,576
  
 
 
89,773
  

 Goodwill
  
 
76,501
  
 
 
76,501
  

 Other assets
  
 
999
  
 
 
972
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
606,550
  
 
$
521,225
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
3,019
  
 
$
7,194
  

 Accrued compensation
  
 
12,807
  
 
 
9,252
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
6,669
  
 
 
8,540
  

 Accrued clinical trial expenses
  
 
11,953
  
 
 
12,144
  

 Deferred revenue, current portion
  
 
19,643
  
 
 
20,584
  

 Convertible subordinated notes, current portion
  
 
214,955
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other current liabilities
  
 
6,486
  
 
 
6,394
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
275,532
  
 
 
64,108
  

 Convertible subordinated notes
  
 
—  
  
 
 
214,955
  

 Capital lease obligations, less current portion
  
 
14,582
  
 
 
17,014
  

 Deferred revenue, less current portion
  
 
108,188
  
 
 
124,763
  

 Deferred gain
  
 
3,278
  
 
 
4,152
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
7,159
  
 
 
5,571
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
408,739
  
 
 
430,563
  

 Commitments and contingencies
  



 




 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock, 10,000 shares authorized Series A, $0.0001 par value; 3,100 shares designated; no shares
issued or outstanding at either December 31, 2011 or 2010
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock, $0.0001 par value; 300,000 authorized; 114,485 shares and 94,517 shares issued and outstanding at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
  
 
11
  
 
 
9
  

 Capital in excess of par value
  
 
1,597,428
  
 
 
1,354,232
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income
  
 
(1,103
) 
 
 
968
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(1,398,525
) 
 
 
(1,264,547
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
197,811
  
 
 
90,662
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
606,550
  
 
$
521,225
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  71 


Table of Contents
NEKTAR THERAPEUTICS 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(In thousands, except per share information)
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 




 Product sales
  
$
24,864
  
 
$
27,412
  
 
$
30,116
  

 Royalty revenues
  
 
10,327
  
 
 
7,255
  
 
 
5,172
  

 License, collaboration and other revenue
  
 
36,289
  
 
 
124,372
  
 
 
36,643
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
71,480
  
 
 
159,039
  
 
 
71,931
  

 Operating costs and expenses:
  



 



 




 Cost of goods sold
  
 
21,891
  
 
 
25,667
  
 
 
30,948
  

 Research and development
  
 
126,766
  
 
 
108,065
  
 
 
95,109
  

 General and administrative
  
 
46,760
  
 
 
40,986
  
 
 
41,006
  

 Impairment of long-lived assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
12,576
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating costs and expenses
  
 
195,417
  
 
 
187,294
  
 
 
167,063
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from operations
  
 
(123,937
) 
 
 
(28,255
) 
 
 
(95,132
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-operating income (expense):
  



 



 




 Interest income
  
 
2,244
  
 
 
1,545
  
 
 
3,688
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(10,223
) 
 
 
(11,174
) 
 
 
(12,176
) 

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
(1,044
) 
 
 
827
  
 
 
848
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-operating expense, net
  
 
(9,023
) 
 
 
(8,802
) 
 
 
(7,640
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss before provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
 
(132,960
) 
 
 
(37,057
) 
 
 
(102,772
) 

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
 
1,018
  
 
 
881
  
 
 
(253
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  
$
(133,978
) 
 
$
(37,938
) 
 
$
(102,519
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted net loss per share
  
$
(1.19
) 
 
$
(0.40
) 
 
$
(1.11
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares outstanding used in computing basic and diluted net loss per share
  
 
112,942
  
 
 
94,079
  
 
 
92,772
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  72 


Table of Contents
NEKTAR THERAPEUTICS 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 




























 
  
CommonShares
 
  
ParValue
 
  
Capital inExcess ofPar Value
 
  
Accumulated 
OtherComprehensiveIncome/(Loss)
 
 
AccumulatedDeficit
 
 
TotalStockholders’Equity
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
92,503
  
  
$
9
  
  
$
1,312,796
  
  
$
1,439
  
 
$
(1,124,090
) 
 
$
190,154
  

 Stock option exercises and RSU release
  
 
742
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,696
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,696
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
10,326
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,326
  

 Shares issued for Employee Stock Purchase Plan
  
 
36
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
124
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
124
  

 Other comprehensive loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(414
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(414
) 

 Net loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(102,519
) 
 
 
(102,519
) 


  



  



  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive loss
  



  



  



  



 



 
 
(102,933
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
93,281
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
1,327,942
  
  
 
1,025
  
 
 
(1,226,609
) 
 
 
102,367
  

 Stock option exercises and RSU release
  
 
1,176
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,340
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,340
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,399
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,399
  

 Shares issued for Employee Stock Purchase Plan
  
 
60
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
551
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
551
  

 Other comprehensive loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(57
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(57
) 

 Net loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(37,938
) 
 
 
(37,938
) 


  



  



  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive loss
  



  



  



  



 



 
 
(37,995
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
94,517
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
1,354,232
  
  
 
968
  
 
 
(1,264,547
) 
 
 
90,662
  

 Sale of common stock, net of issuance costs of $617
  
 
19,000
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
219,781
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
219,783
  

 Stock option exercises and RSU release
  
 
866
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,916
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,916
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
18,885
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18,885
  

 Shares issued for Employee Stock Purchase Plan
  
 
102
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
614
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
614
  

 Other comprehensive loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,071
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,071
) 

 Net loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(133,978
) 
 
 
(133,978
) 


  



  



  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive loss
  



  



  



  



 



 
 
(136,049
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
114,485
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
1,597,428
  
  
$
(1,103
) 
 
$
(1,398,525
) 
 
$
197,811
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  73 


Table of Contents
NEKTAR THERAPEUTICS 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net loss
  
$
(133,978
) 
 
$
(37,938
) 
 
$
(102,519
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
14,951
  
 
 
16,551
  
 
 
14,881
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
18,885
  
 
 
17,399
  
 
 
10,326
  

 Impairment of long-lived assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
12,576
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other non-cash transactions
  
 
1,359
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
(657
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
20,164
  
 
 
(20,301
) 
 
 
6,034
  

 Inventory
  
 
(5,390
) 
 
 
(795
) 
 
 
2,848
  

 Other assets
  
 
(12,267
) 
 
 
577
  
 
 
(200
) 

 Accounts payable
  
 
(3,384
) 
 
 
4,274
  
 
 
(8,046
) 

 Accrued compensation
  
 
3,555
  
 
 
(800
) 
 
 
(1,518
) 

 Accrued expenses
  
 
1,013
  
 
 
1,683
  
 
 
(4,191
) 

 Accrued clinical trial expenses
  
 
(191
) 
 
 
(2,023
) 
 
 
(3,455
) 

 Deferred revenue
  
 
(17,516
) 
 
 
(47,025
) 
 
 
126,795
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
(943
) 
 
 
(247
) 
 
 
(559
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities
  
 
(113,742
) 
 
 
(55,871
) 
 
 
39,739
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Purchases of property and equipment
  
 
(9,722
) 
 
 
(31,457
) 
 
 
(16,390
) 

 Advance payments for property and equipment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,312
) 

 Maturities of investments
  
 
383,052
  
 
 
475,813
  
 
 
310,707
  

 Sales of investments
  
 
210,089
  
 
 
15,479
  
 
 
17,318
  

 Purchases of investments
  
 
(695,371
) 
 
 
(443,122
) 
 
 
(451,918
) 

 Transaction costs for sale of pulmonary assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,440
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
  
 
(111,952
) 
 
 
16,713
  
 
 
(149,035
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Issuance of common stock, net of issuance costs
  
 
224,313
  
 
 
8,891
  
 
 
4,820
  

 Payments of loan and capital lease obligations
  
 
(1,978
) 
 
 
(1,356
) 
 
 
(1,285
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by financing activities
  
 
222,335
  
 
 
7,535
  
 
 
3,535
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
916
  
 
 
(219
) 
 
 
(226
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(2,443
) 
 
 
(31,842
) 
 
 
(105,987
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
17,755
  
 
 
49,597
  
 
 
155,584
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
15,312
  
 
$
17,755
  
 
$
49,597
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosure of cash flows information:
  



 



 




 Cash paid for interest
  
$
10,277
  
 
$
10,599
  
 
$
11,225
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash paid for income taxes
  
$
957
  
 
$
407
  
 
$
743
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities:
  



 



 




 Property and equipment acquired through capital leases
  
$
—  
  
 
$
195
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  74 


Table of Contents
NEKTAR THERAPEUTICS 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011 
Note 1 — Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Organization  We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company headquartered in San Francisco, California and incorporated in Delaware. We are developing a pipeline of drug candidates that utilize our PEGylation
and advanced polymer conjugate technology platforms designed to improve the therapeutic benefits of drugs. 
Our development activities have required significant resources to date and are expected to continue to require
significant resources. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flows from operations in the future. Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through cash from licensing, collaboration and
manufacturing agreements and public and private placements of debt and equity securities. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $414.9 million in cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities and $239.9 million in
indebtedness, including $215.0 million in outstanding convertible subordinated notes due September 2012. On February 24, 2012, we entered into an agreement whereby we received an aggregate cash payment of $124.0 million in exchange for the
right to receive all royalty payments arising from future worldwide net sales of CIMZIA® and MIRCERA® from and after January 1, 2012 under our license, manufacturing and supply agreements with UCB Pharma (UCB) and
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (Roche), respectively. Additionally, we incurred approximately $4.5 million in transaction costs. We plan to use the net payments from this agreement to in part repay the convertible
subordinated notes due September 28, 2012 (see Note 14).  Basis of Presentation, Principles of Consolidation
and Use of Estimates  Our consolidated financial statements include the financial position, results of operations and
cash flows of our wholly-owned subsidiaries: Nektar Therapeutics AL, Corporation (Nektar AL), Nektar Therapeutics (India) Private Limited, Nektar Therapeutics UK, Ltd. (Nektar UK) and Aerogen, Inc. All intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation. The merger of Nektar AL, an Alabama corporation, with and into its parent corporation, Nektar Therapeutics, was made effective July 31, 2009. As of the effective date, the separate existence of Nektar AL
ceased, and all rights, privileges, powers and franchises of Nektar AL are vested in Nektar Therapeutics, the surviving corporation. On December 2, 2010, we completed the dissolution of Aerogen, Inc. and all remaining assets were transferred to
Nektar Therapeutics.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, changes in
exchange rates between the applicable foreign currency and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of each foreign subsidiary’s financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results.
Translation gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss in the stockholders’ equity section of the balance sheet. To date, such cumulative translation adjustments have not been material to our consolidated financial
position. Aggregate gross foreign currency transaction gains (losses) recorded in operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were not material.  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from those
estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to deferred revenue recognition periods, inventories, the impairment of investments, the impairment of goodwill and long-lived

  75 


Table of Contents

assets, restructuring and contingencies, stock-based compensation, and litigation, amongst others. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that management believes
are reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities when these values are not readily apparent from other sources. 
Reclassifications  Certain items previously reported in specific financial statement captions have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Such reclassifications do not impact previously reported
total revenue, operating loss or net loss or total assets, liabilities or stockholders’ equity.  Cash, Cash
Equivalents, and Investments, and Fair Value of Financial Instruments  We consider all investments in marketable
securities with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Investments are designated as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The disclosed fair value related to our investments is based primarily on the reported fair values in our period-end brokerage statements. We independently validate these fair values using available
market quotes and other information. Investments in securities with maturities of less than one year, or where management’s intent is to use the investments to fund current operations or to make them available for current operations, are
classified as short-term investments  Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale, as well as
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity, are included in interest income. Realized gains and losses and declines in value of available-for-sale securities judged to be other-than-temporary, if any, are included in other
income (expense). The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  The carrying value of cash,
cash equivalents, and investments approximates fair value and is based on quoted market prices.  Accounts Receivable and
Significant Customer Concentrations  Our customers are primarily pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are
located in the U.S. and Europe. Our accounts receivable balance contains billed and unbilled trade receivables from product sales and royalties, as well as time and materials based billings from collaborative research and development
agreements. We provide for an allowance for doubtful accounts by reserving for specifically identified doubtful accounts. We generally do not require collateral from our customers. We perform a regular review of our customers’ payment histories
and associated credit risk. We have not experienced significant credit losses from our accounts receivable. At December 31, 2011, four different customers represented 26%, 20%, 19% and 17%, respectively, of our accounts receivable. At
December 31, 2010, two different customers represented 66% and 21%, respectively, of our accounts receivable. 
Inventory and Significant Supplier Concentrations  Inventory is generally manufactured upon receipt of firm purchase orders from our licensing partners. Inventory includes direct materials, direct labor, and manufacturing overhead and is determined on a
first-in, first-out basis. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market and is net of reserves determined using specific identification plus an estimated reserve for potential defective or excess inventory based on historical experience or
projected usage. Supplies inventory related to research and development activities are expensed when purchased.  We are
dependent on our suppliers and contract manufacturers to provide raw materials, drugs and devices of appropriate quality and reliability and to meet applicable regulatory requirements. In certain cases, we rely on

  76 


Table of Contents

single sources of supply. Consequently, in the event that supplies are delayed or interrupted for any reason, our ability to develop and produce our products could be impaired, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Property and Equipment
 Property and equipment are stated at cost. Major improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are
expensed when incurred. Manufacturing, laboratory and other equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method generally over estimated useful lives of three to seven years. Leasehold improvements and buildings are depreciated using the
straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful life or the remaining term of the lease.  We periodically review
our property and equipment for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Generally, an impairment loss would be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds the sum
of the discounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposal of the asset (see Note 10). 
Goodwill  Goodwill represents the excess of the price paid for another entity over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. We test for impairment in the fourth
quarter of each year using an October 1 measurement date, as well as at other times when impairment indicators exist or when events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. 
We are organized in one reporting unit and have evaluated the goodwill for the Company as a whole. Goodwill is tested for impairment
using a two-step approach. The first step is to compare the fair value of our net assets, including assigned goodwill, to the book value of our net assets, including assigned goodwill. If the fair value is greater than our net book value, the
assigned goodwill is not considered impaired. If the fair value is less than our net book value, we perform a second step to measure the amount of the impairment, if any. The second step would be to compare the book value of our assigned goodwill to
the implied fair value of our goodwill. We did not recognize any goodwill-related impairment charges during 2011, 2010, or 2009.  Revenue Recognition  We enter into arrangements with pharmaceutical
and biotechnology partners that may involve multiple deliverables. Our arrangements may contain one or more of the following elements: upfront fees, contract research and development, milestone payments, manufacturing and supply, royalties, and
license fees. Each deliverable in the arrangement is evaluated to determine whether it meets the criteria to be accounted for as a separate unit of accounting or whether it should be combined with other deliverables. Revenue is recognized separately
for each element.  On January 1, 2011, we adopted on a prospective basis Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-13, which
amends the criteria to identify separate units of accounting within Subtopic 605-25, “Revenue Recognition-Multiple-Element Arrangements.” The adoption of the standard did not impact our financial position or results of operations as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2011 as we did not enter into or materially modify any multiple-element arrangements during that period. However, the adoption of this standard may result in revenue recognition patterns for future agreements
that are materially different from those recognized for our existing multiple-element arrangements.  Product sales
 Product sales are primarily derived from cost-plus and fixed price manufacturing and supply agreements with our
collaboration partners and revenue is recognized when there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. We have not experienced any significant
returns from our customers. 
  77 


Table of Contents
Royalty revenues 
Generally, we are entitled to royalties from our partners based on their net sales of approved drugs. We recognize royalty revenue when
the cash is received or when the royalty amount to be received is estimable and collection is reasonably assured.  License,
collaboration and other  Upfront fees received for license and collaborative agreements entered into prior to
January 1, 2011 are recognized ratably over our expected performance period under each respective arrangement. Management makes its best estimate of the period over which we expect to fulfill our performance obligations, which may include
technology transfer assistance, clinical development activities, and manufacturing activities from development through the commercialization of the product. Given the uncertainties of these collaborative arrangements, significant judgment is
required to determine the duration of the performance period.  On January 1, 2011, we elected to prospectively adopt ASU
2010-17, “Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition”. Under the milestone method, contingent consideration received from the achievement of a substantive milestone is recognized in its entirety in the period in which the milestone is
achieved, which we believe is more consistent with the substance of our performance under our various license and collaboration agreements. A milestone is defined as an event (i) that can only be achieved based in whole or in part on either the
entity’s performance or on the occurrence of a specific outcome resulting from the entity’s performance, (ii) for which there is substantive uncertainty at the date the arrangement is entered into that the event will be achieved, and
(iii) that would result in additional payments being due to the entity. A milestone is substantive if the consideration earned from the achievement of the milestone is consistent with our performance required to achieve the milestone or the
increase in value to the collaboration resulting from our performance, relates solely to our past performance, and is reasonable relative to all of the other deliverables and payments within the arrangement. 
Our license and collaboration agreements with our partners provide for payments to us upon the achievement of development milestones,
such as the completion of clinical trials or regulatory submissions and approvals for drug candidates. Given the challenges inherent in developing and obtaining approval for pharmaceutical and biologic products, there was substantial uncertainty
whether any such milestones would be achieved at the time these licensing and collaboration agreements were entered into. In addition, we evaluated whether the development milestones met the remaining criteria to be considered substantive. As a
result of our analysis, we consider our development milestones to be substantive and, accordingly, we expect to recognize as revenue future payments received from such milestones as each milestone is achieved. This policy election may result in
revenue recognition patterns for future milestones that are materially different from those recognized for milestones received in the periods prior to adoption during which milestones were deferred and recognized ratably over the period of time from
the achievement of the milestone to the estimated date when the next milestone will be achieved. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we achieved two development milestones totaling $4.5 million from two of our collaboration agreements.
Under the milestone method of revenue recognition, these substantive milestones were recognized in their entirety upon achievement in the year ended December 31, 2011, whereas under our previous milestone revenue recognition policy, we would
have recognized approximately $1.5 million related to such amounts during this period. As a result, in the year ended December 31, 2011, this change in accounting policy resulted in increased revenues and a corresponding decrease to net loss of
approximately $3.0 million, or $0.03 per share.  Our license and collaboration agreements with certain partners also provide
for contingent payments to us based solely upon the performance of the respective partner. For such contingent amounts we expect to recognize the payments as revenue when earned under the applicable contract, provided that collection is reasonably
assured. 
  78 


Table of Contents
Our license and collaboration agreements with our partners also provide for payments to us
upon the achievement of specified sales volumes of approved drugs. We consider these payments to be similar to royalty payments and we will recognize such sales-based payments upon achievement of such sales volumes, provided that collection is
reasonably assured.  Shipping and Handling Costs 
We record costs related to shipping and handling of product to customers in cost of goods sold. 
Stock-Based Compensation  Stock-based compensation arrangements include stock option grants and restricted stock unit (RSU) awards under our equity incentive plans, as well as shares issued under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(ESPP), in which employees may purchase our common stock at a discount to the market price.  We use the Black-Scholes option
valuation model for the respective grant to determine the estimated fair value of the option or RSU award on the date of grant (grant date fair value) and the estimated fair value of common stock purchased under the ESPP. The Black-Scholes option
pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions. Because our employee stock options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially
affect the fair value estimate, in management’s opinion, the existing models may not provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of our employee stock options or common stock purchased under the ESPP. Management will continue to assess
the assumptions and methodologies used to calculate the estimated fair value of stock-based compensation. Circumstances may change and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to these assumptions and
methodologies, and which could materially impact our fair value determination.  We expense the value of the portion of the
option or award that is ultimately expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Stock-based compensation expense for purchases under the ESPP are recognized based on the
estimated fair value of the common stock during each offering period and the percentage of the purchase discount. Expense amounts are allocated among inventory, cost of goods sold, research and development expense, and general and administrative
expense based on the function of the applicable employee. Stock-based compensation charges are non-cash charges and as such have no impact on our reported cash flows.  Research and Development Expense  Research and development costs are
expensed as incurred and include salaries, benefits and other operating costs such as outside services, supplies and allocated overhead costs. We perform research and development for our proprietary drug candidates and technology development and for
certain third parties under collaboration agreements. For our proprietary drug candidates and our internal technology development programs, we invest our own funds without reimbursement from a third party. 
We record accruals for the estimated costs of our clinical trial activities performed by third parties. We generally accrue costs
associated with the start-up and reporting phases of the clinical trials ratably over the estimated duration of the start-up and reporting phases. We accrue costs associated with the treatment phase of clinical trials based on the total estimated
cost of the treatment phase on a per patient basis and we expense the per patient cost ratably based on patient enrollment in the trials. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development
activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and recognized as expense as the related goods are delivered or the related services are performed. 
  79 


Table of Contents
Net Loss Per Share  Basic net loss per share is calculated based on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the periods presented. For all periods presented in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations, the net loss available to common stockholders is equal to the reported net loss. Basic and diluted net loss per share are the same due to our historical net losses and the requirement to exclude potentially dilutive securities which
would have an anti-dilutive effect on net loss per share. The weighted average of these potentially dilutive securities has been excluded from the diluted net loss per share calculation and is as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Convertible subordinated notes
  
 
9,989
  
  
 
9,989
  
  
 
9,989
  

 Stock options
  
 
11,338
  
  
 
9,338
  
  
 
10,653
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
21,327
  
  
 
19,327
  
  
 
20,642
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Income Taxes  We account for income taxes under the liability method; under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of
assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future earnings, the timing and amount of
which are uncertain. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. When we establish or reduce the valuation allowance related to the deferred tax
assets, our provision for income taxes will increase or decrease, respectively, in the period such determination is made.  We
utilize a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained upon tax authority examination, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized
upon ultimate settlement.  Comprehensive loss 
Comprehensive loss is the change in stockholders’ equity from transactions and other events and circumstances other than those
resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. Our other comprehensive loss is comprised of net loss, gains and losses from the foreign currency translation of the assets and liabilities of our India subsidiary, and
unrealized gains and losses on investments.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued new accounting guidance intended to simplify goodwill impairment
testing. Entities will be allowed to perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill impairment to determine whether a quantitative assessment is necessary. This guidance is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2012.
We do not believe the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
  80 


Table of Contents
Note 2 — Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Available-For-Sale Investments 
Cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments are as follows (in thousands): 
 












 
  
Estimated Fair Value at
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
15,312
  
  
$
17,755
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
225,856
  
  
 
298,177
  

 Long-term investments
  
 
173,768
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments
  
$
414,936
  
  
$
315,932
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments includes (in thousands):
  












 
  
Estimated Fair Value at
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Corporate notes and bonds
  
$
344,427
  
  
$
190,527
  

 U.S. corporate commercial paper
  
 
9,464
  
  
 
82,361
  

 Obligations of U.S. government agencies
  
 
44,230
  
  
 
25,289
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities
  
 
1,503
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash and money market funds
  
 
15,312
  
  
 
17,755
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments
  
$
414,936
  
  
$
315,932
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table summarizes our portfolio of available-for-sale investments reported as short-term and
long-term investments by contractual maturity (in thousands):   












 
  
Estimated Fair Value at
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Less than one year
  
$
213,386
  
  
$
298,177
  

 Greater than one year but less than two years
  
 
186,238
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale investments
  
$
399,624
  
  
$
298,177
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We invest in liquid, high quality debt securities. Our investments in debt securities are subject to
interest rate risk. To minimize the exposure due to an adverse shift in interest rates, we invest in securities with maturities of two years or less and maintain a weighted average maturity of one year or less. Investments in securities with
remaining maturities of less than one year, or where management’s intent is to use the investments to fund current operations, or to make them available for current operations, are classified as short-term investments. 
Gross unrealized gains and losses were not significant at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The gross unrealized losses were primarily due
to changes in interest rates on fixed income securities. Based on our available cash and our expected operating cash requirements we currently do not intend to sell these securities and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell
these securities before we recover the amortized cost basis. Accordingly, we believe there are no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities and have not recorded a provision for impairment. 
During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we sold available-for-sale securities totaling $210.1 million,
$15.5 million and $17.3 million, respectively, and realized gains and losses were not significant in any of those periods. The proceeds from these sales were re-invested in new securities. 
  81 


Table of Contents
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had letter of credit arrangements in favor of a
landlord and certain vendors totaling $2.4 million. These letters of credit are secured by investments of similar amounts. 
The following table represents the fair value hierarchy for our financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):   




















 As of December 31, 2011:
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 Money market funds
  
$
13,950
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
13,950
  

 U.S. corporate commercial paper
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,464
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,464
  

 Corporate notes and bonds
  
 
—  
  
  
 
344,427
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
344,427
  

 Obligations of U.S. government agencies
  
 
—  
  
  
 
44,230
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
44,230
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,503
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,503
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments
  
$
13,950
  
  
$
399,624
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
413,574
  

 Cash
  



  



  



  
 
1,362
  


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments
  



  



  



  
$
414,936
  


  



  



  



  
  
  
 
  




















 As of December 31, 2010:
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 Money market funds
  
$
16,028
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
16,028
  

 U.S. corporate commercial paper
  
 
—  
  
  
 
82,361
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
82,361
  

 Corporate notes and bonds
  
 
—  
  
  
 
190,527
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
190,527
  

 Obligations of U.S. government agencies
  
 
—  
  
  
 
25,289
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
25,289
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments
  
$
16,028
  
  
$
298,177
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
314,205
  

 Cash
  



  



  



  
 
1,727
  


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments
  



  



  



  
$
315,932
  


  



  



  



  
  
  
 
    






Level 1 —
  
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.




Level 2 —
  
Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that
are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.




Level 3 —
  
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.

Note 3 — Inventory 
Inventory consists of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Raw materials
  
$
9,754
  
  
$
6,101
  

 Work-in-process
  
 
1,219
  
  
 
—  
  

 Finished goods
  
 
1,683
  
  
 
1,165
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Inventory
  
$
12,656
  
  
$
7,266
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  82 


Table of Contents
Note 4 — Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment consist of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Building and leasehold improvements
  
$
72,473
  
 
$
73,150
  

 Laboratory equipment
  
 
33,705
  
 
 
31,871
  

 Manufacturing equipment
  
 
12,135
  
 
 
13,386
  

 Furniture, fixtures and other equipment
  
 
20,750
  
 
 
22,803
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Depreciable property and equipment at cost
  
 
139,063
  
 
 
141,210
  

 Less: accumulated depreciation
  
 
(62,237
) 
 
 
(53,994
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Depreciable property and equipment, net
  
 
76,826
  
 
 
87,216
  

 Construction- in-progress
  
 
1,750
  
 
 
2,557
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
78,576
  
 
$
89,773
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Building and leasehold improvements include our commercial manufacturing, clinical manufacturing,
research and development and administrative facilities and the related improvements to these facilities. Laboratory and manufacturing equipment include assets that support both our manufacturing and research and development efforts.
Construction-in-progress includes assets being built to enhance our manufacturing and research and development facilities. Property and equipment includes assets acquired through capital leases (See Note 6). 
Depreciation expense, including depreciation of assets acquired through capital leases, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010,
and 2009 was $15.0 million, $14.8 million, and $12.7 million, respectively.  On November 29, 2010, we
relocated all of our operations formerly located in San Carlos, California, including our corporate headquarters, to our Mission Bay Facility in San Francisco, California. This event triggered a $12.6 million impairment charge for the
remaining assets located in San Carlos, which was recognized in November 2010 (see Note 10). 
Note 5 — Convertible Subordinated Notes 
The outstanding balance of our convertible subordinated notes is as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Semi-AnnualInterest 
Payment Dates
 
  
December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 3.25% Notes due September 2012
  
 
March 28, September 28
  
  
$
214,955
  
  
$
214,955
  
 Our convertible subordinated 3.25% notes due September 28, 2012 (Notes) are unsecured and
subordinated in right of payment to any future senior debt. The Notes are convertible at the option of the holder at any time on or prior to maturity into shares of our common stock. The Notes have a conversion rate of 46.4727 shares per
$1,000 principal amount, which is equal to a conversion price of approximately $21.52 per share. Additionally, at any time prior to maturity, if a fundamental change as defined in the Notes agreement occurs, we may be required to pay a make-whole
premium on notes converted in connection therewith by increasing the applicable conversion rate.  We may redeem the Notes in
whole or in part for cash at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus any accrued but unpaid interest if the closing price of the common stock has exceeded 150% of the conversion price for at least 20 days in
any consecutive 30 day trading period. 
  83 


Table of Contents
Note 6 — Leases 
Capital Leases  We lease office space and certain office equipment under capital lease arrangements. The gross carrying value by major asset class and accumulated depreciation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as
follows (in thousands):   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Building and leasehold improvements
  
$
2,117
  
 
$
2,117
  

 Furniture, fixtures and other equipment
  
 
195
  
 
 
195
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets recorded under capital leases
  
 
2,312
  
 
 
2,312
  

 Less: accumulated depreciation
  
 
(464
) 
 
 
(54
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net assets recorded under capital leases
  
$
1,848
  
 
$
2,258
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 We lease office space at 201 Industrial Road in San Carlos, California under capital lease
arrangements. Under the terms of the lease, rent increases up to 3% annually and the lease termination date is October 5, 2016. As of November 29, 2010, we ceased use of this space as a result of the relocation of our San Carlos
operations and corporate headquarters to San Francisco, California. We have subleased a portion of the San Carlos facility and are currently seeking one or more subtenants for the remaining space, but have not been relieved of any obligations
under the terms of this lease. As a result of our relocation, an impairment test was performed for the building and related leasehold improvements located in San Carlos. As a result of this impairment test, we recorded an impairment charge of
$12.6 million in November 2010 (see Note 10).  Future minimum payments for our capital leases at December 31, 2011 are as
follows (in thousands):   








 Years ending December 31,
  




 2012
  
$
5,028
  

 2013
  
 
5,129
  

 2014
  
 
5,191
  

 2015
  
 
5,280
  

 2016
  
 
4,034
  


  
  
  
 

 Total minimum payments required
  
$
24,662
  

 Less: amount representing interest
  
 
(7,648
) 


  
  
  
 

 Present value of future minimum lease payments
  
$
17,014
  

 Less: current portion
  
 
(2,432
) 


  
  
  
 

 Non-current portion
  
$
14,582
  


  
  
  
 
 Operating Lease  On September 30, 2009, we entered into an operating sublease (Sublease) with Pfizer, Inc. for a 102,283 square foot facility located in San Francisco, California (Mission Bay Facility).
Upon completion of construction of the Mission Bay Facility, we moved in on November 29, 2010. The Mission Bay Facility includes a research and development center with biology, chemistry, pharmacology, and clinical development capabilities, as
well as all of the functions previously located in San Carlos, California, including our corporate headquarters.  Under
the terms of the Sublease, we will begin making non-cancelable lease payments in 2014, after the expiration of our free rent period on August 1, 2014. The Sublease term of 114 months commenced in August

  84 


Table of Contents

2010 and ends on January 31, 2020. Monthly base rent will start at $2.95 per square foot and will escalate over the term of the sublease at various intervals to $3.42 per square foot in the
final period of the Sublease term. Rent expense is being recognized ratably from April 2010, the inception of our tenant improvement construction period, through the end of the Sublease term. In addition, throughout the term of the Sublease, we are
responsible for paying certain costs and expenses specified in the Sublease, including insurance costs and a pro rata share of operating expenses and applicable taxes for the Mission Bay Facility. 
On December 28, 2011, we amended the Sublease to include an additional 24,002 square feet of space. The amendment term commenced on
December 28, 2011 and ends on January 31, 2020. However, we retain the right to terminate the amendment on May 31, 2013. Under the terms of the amendment, beginning January 1, 2012, we will make lease payments of $40,000 per
month until May 31, 2013.  Our future minimum lease payments for our operating lease at December 31, 2011 are as
follows (in thousands):   








 Years ending December 31,
  




 2012
  
$
480
  

 2013
  
 
200
  

 2014
  
 
1,509
  

 2015
  
 
3,667
  

 2016
  
 
3,777
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
12,367
  


  
  
  
 

 Total future minimum lease payments
  
$
22,000
  


  
  
  
 
 We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period. For the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, rent expense for our operating lease was approximately $2.4 million, $2.2 million, and $0.7 million, respectively. 
Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies 
Royalty Expense  We have third party licenses that require us to pay royalties based on our shipment of certain products and/or on our receipt of royalty payments under our collaboration agreements. Royalty expense, which
is reflected in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, was approximately $1.8 million, $2.2 million, and $3.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The overall
maximum amount of these obligations is based upon sales of the applicable products and cannot be reasonably estimated. 
Other Commitments  In the normal course of business we enter into various firm purchase commitments related to contract manufacturing, clinical development and certain other items. As of December 31, 2011, these
commitments were approximately $10.1 million, all of which were expected to be paid in 2012.  Legal Matters
 From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits, arbitrations, claims, investigations and proceedings, consisting of
intellectual property, commercial, employment and other matters, which arise in the ordinary course of business. We make provisions for liabilities when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated. Such provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impact of settlement negotiations, judicial and administrative rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a
particular case. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. If any unfavorable ruling were to occur in any specific period, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the results of operations of that period or on our cash flows and
liquidity. 
  85 


Table of Contents
On November 18, 2009, the Research Foundation of the State University of New York
(SUNY) filed an action against Nektar in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York. SUNY seeks to recover amounts it alleges it is owed pursuant to a technology licensing contract between Nektar and SUNY. We
dispute SUNY’s claims. Discovery in the matter is continuing and a “trial ready” date has been set for September 1, 2012. We believe that SUNY’s claims are without merit. No reasonable estimate of the possible loss
or range of loss can be made at this time and no liabilities have been recorded for this matter on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 or 2010.  Indemnifications in Connection with Commercial Agreements  As part
of our collaboration agreements with our partners related to the license, development, manufacture and supply of drugs based on our proprietary technologies, we generally agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our partners from and against
third party liabilities arising out of the agreement, including product liability (with respect to our activities) and infringement of intellectual property to the extent the intellectual property is developed by us and licensed to our partners. The
term of these indemnification obligations is generally perpetual any time after execution of the agreement. There is generally no limitation on the potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification
obligations.  As part of our pulmonary asset sale to Novartis that closed on December 31, 2008, we and Novartis made
representations and warranties and entered into certain covenants and ancillary agreements which are supported by an indemnity obligation. In the event it were determined that we breached any of the representations and warranties or covenants and
agreements made by us in the transaction documents, we could incur an indemnification liability depending on the timing, nature, and amount of any such claims.  To date we have not incurred costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification obligations. If any of our indemnification obligations is triggered, we may incur substantial
liabilities. Because the obligated amount under these agreements is not explicitly stated, the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. No liabilities have been recorded for these obligations on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 or 2010.  Indemnification of Underwriters and Initial Purchasers of our
Securities  In connection with our sale of equity and convertible debt securities, we have agreed to defend, indemnify
and hold harmless our underwriters or initial purchasers, as applicable, as well as certain related parties from and against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The term of these indemnification
obligations is generally perpetual. There is no limitation on the potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification obligations. We have never incurred costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to
these indemnification obligations. If any of our indemnification obligations are triggered, however, we may incur substantial liabilities. Because the obligated amount of this agreement is not explicitly stated, the overall maximum amount of the
obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically, we have not been obligated to make significant payments for these obligations, and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2011 or 2010.  Director and Officer Indemnifications 
As permitted under Delaware law, and as set forth in our Certificate of Incorporation and our Bylaws, we indemnify our directors,
executive officers, other officers, employees, and other agents for certain events or 
  86 


Table of Contents

occurrences that may arise while in such capacity. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under this indemnification is unlimited; however, we have insurance
policies that may limit our exposure and may enable us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. Assuming the applicability of coverage, the willingness of the insurer to assume coverage, and subject to certain retention, loss limits and
other policy provisions, we believe any obligations under this indemnification would not be material, other than an initial $500,000 per incident for securities related claims and $250,000 per incident for non-securities related claims retention
deductible per our insurance policy. However, no assurances can be given that the covering insurers will not attempt to dispute the validity, applicability, or amount of coverage without expensive litigation against these insurers, in which case we
may incur substantial liabilities as a result of these indemnification obligations. Because the obligated amount of this agreement is not explicitly stated, the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically,
we have not been obligated to make significant payments for these obligations, and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
Note 8 — Stockholders’ Equity 
Preferred Stock  We have authorized 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock with each share having a par value of $0.0001. Of these shares, 3,100,000 shares are designated Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock (Series A Preferred Stock). The remaining shares are undesignated. We have no preferred shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
Series A Preferred Stock  On June 1, 2001, the Board of Directors approved the adoption of a Share Purchase Rights Plan (Rights Plan). The Rights Plan provided for a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right
(each a Right) for each outstanding share of our Common Stock. The Rights expired on June 1, 2011 and the Rights Plan and Rights are no longer effective. The Rights had certain anti-takeover effects and would have caused substantial dilution to
a person or group that attempted to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The dividend distribution was paid on June 22, 2001 to the stockholders of record on that date. Each Right entitled the registered holder to
purchase from us one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock at a price of $225.00 per one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, subject to adjustment. Each one one-hundredth of a share of Series A
Preferred Stock had designations and powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions which made its value approximately equal to the value of one share of common stock. The Rights were not exercisable until the
Distribution Date (as defined in the Certificate of Designation for the Series A Preferred Stock).  Common Stock
 On January 24, 2011, we completed the issuance and sale of 19,000,000 shares of our common stock for gross
proceeds to the Company of approximately $220.4 million. Additionally, we incurred approximately $0.6 million in legal and accounting fees, filing fees, and other offering expenses. 
At December 31, 2011, we have reserved shares of common stock for issuance as follows (in thousands): 
 








 
  
As of December 
31,2011
 

 Convertible subordinated notes
  
 
9,989
  

 Equity compensation plans
  
 
25,388
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
35,377
  


  
  
  
 

  87 


Table of Contents
Equity Compensation Plans 
The following table summarizes information with respect to shares of our common stock that may be issued under our existing equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2011 (share number in thousands):   
















 Plan Category
  
Number of Securities to beIssued Upon Exercise ofOutstanding Options& Vesting of
RSUs(a)
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
ofOutstanding Options(b)
 
  
Number of Securities 
RemainingAvailable for Issuance UnderEquity Compensation Plans(Excluding Securities Reflectedin Column(a))(c)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1)
  
 
10,051
  
  
$
8.98
  
  
 
7,600
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
  
 
7,131
  
  
$
9.73
  
  
 
606
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
17,182
  
  
$
9.29
  
  
 
8,206
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Includes shares of common stock available for future issuance under our ESPP as of December 31, 2011. 
2008 Equity Incentive Plan  Our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (2008 Plan) was adopted by the Board of Directors on March 20, 2008 and was approved by our stockholders on June 6, 2008. The purpose of the 2008 Equity Incentive
Plan is to attract and retain qualified personnel, to provide additional incentives to our employees, officers, consultants and non-employee directors and to promote the success of our business. Pursuant to the 2008 Plan, we may grant or issue
incentive stock options to employees and officers and non-qualified stock options, rights to acquire restricted stock, restricted stock units, and stock bonuses to consultants, employees, officers and non-employee directors. 
The maximum number of shares of our common stock that may be issued or transferred pursuant to awards under the 2008 Plan is
9,000,000 shares. Shares issued in respect of any stock bonus or restricted stock award granted under the 2008 Plan will be counted against the plan’s share limit as 1.5 shares for every one share actually issued in connection with
the award. The 2008 Plan will terminate on March 20, 2018, unless earlier terminated by the Board of Directors.  The
maximum term of a stock option under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan is eight years, but if the optionee at the time of grant has voting power of more than 10% of our outstanding capital stock, the maximum term of an incentive stock option is five
years. The exercise price of stock options granted under the 2008 Plan must be at least equal to 100% (or 110% with respect to holders of more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock) of the fair market value of the stock
subject to the option as determined by the closing price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market on the date of grant. 
To the extent that shares are delivered pursuant to the exercise of a stock option, the number of underlying shares as to which the
exercise related shall be counted against the applicable share limits of the 2008 Plan, as opposed to only counting the shares actually issued. Shares that are subject to or underlie awards which expire or for any reason are cancelled or terminated,
are forfeited, fail to vest or for any other reason are not paid or delivered under the 2008 Plan will again be available for subsequent awards under the 2008 Plan.  2000 Equity Incentive Plan  On April 19, 2000, our Board of
Directors adopted the 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (2000 Plan) by amending and restating our 1994 Equity Incentive Plan. On February 9, 2010, the 2000 Plan expired. As a result, no new options may be granted, but existing options granted remain
outstanding. The purpose of the 2000 Equity 
  88 


Table of Contents

Incentive Plan was to attract and retain qualified personnel, to provide additional incentives to our employees, officers, consultants and employee directors and to promote the success of our
business. Pursuant to the 2000 Plan, we granted or issued incentive stock options to employees and officers and non-qualified stock options, rights to acquire restricted stock, restricted stock units, and stock bonuses to consultants, employees,
officers and non-employee directors.  The maximum term of a stock option under the 2000 Plan is eight years, but if the
optionee at the time of grant has voting power of more than 10% of our outstanding capital stock, the maximum term of an incentive stock option is five years. The exercise price of incentive stock options granted under the 2000 Equity Incentive Plan
must be at least equal to 100% (or 110% with respect to holders of more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock) of the fair market value of the stock subject to the option as determined by the closing price of our common stock
on the Nasdaq Global Market on the date of grant.  2000 Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan 
The 1998 Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan was adopted by our Board of Directors on August 18, 1998, and was amended and restated in
its entirety and renamed the 2000 Non-officer Equity Incentive Plan on June 6, 2000 (2000 Non-Officer Plan). The purpose of the 2000 Non-Officer Plan is to attract and retain qualified personnel, to provide additional incentives to employees
and consultants and to promote the success of our business. Pursuant to the 2000 Non-Officer Plan, we may grant or issue non-qualified stock options, rights to acquire restricted stock and stock bonuses to employees and consultants who are neither
Officers nor Directors of Nektar. The maximum term of a stock option under the 2000 Non-Officer Plan is eight years. The exercise price of stock options granted under the 2000 Non-Officer Plan are determined by our Board of Directors by reference to
the closing price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market on the date of grant.  Restricted Stock Units
 During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we granted RSU awards to certain officers, non-employee
directors, employees and consultants. We did not grant any RSU awards during the year ended December 31, 2011. RSU awards are similar to restricted stock in that they are issued for no consideration; however, the holder generally is not
entitled to the underlying shares of common stock until the RSU award vests. Also, because the RSU awards are granted for $0.01 per share, the grant-date fair value of the award is equal to the intrinsic value of our common stock on the date of
grant. The RSU awards were granted under the 2008 Plan, the 2000 Plan and the 2000 Non-Officer Plan and are settled by delivery of shares of our common stock on or shortly after the date the awards vest. 
Beginning with shares granted during 2005, each RSU award depletes the pool of options available for grant under our equity incentive
plans by a ratio of 1:1.5.  Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
In February 1994, our Board of Directors adopted the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) pursuant to section 423(b) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Under the ESPP, 1,500,000 shares of our common stock have been authorized for issuance. The terms of the ESPP provide eligible employees with the opportunity to acquire an ownership interest in Nektar through
participation in a program of periodic payroll deductions for the purchase of our common stock. Employees may elect to enroll or re-enroll in the ESPP on a semi-annual basis. Stock is purchased at 85% of the lower of the closing price on the first
day of the enrollment period or the last day of the enrollment period.  401(k) Retirement Plan 
We sponsor a 401(k) retirement plan whereby eligible employees may elect to contribute up to the lesser of 60% of their annual
compensation or the statutorily prescribed annual limit allowable under Internal Revenue 
  89 


Table of Contents

Service regulations. The 401(k) plan permits us to make matching contributions on behalf of all participants, up to a maximum of $3,000 per participant. For the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010, and 2009, we recognized $0.9 million, $1.0 million, and $0.8 million, respectively, of compensation expense in connection with our 401(k) retirement plan. 
Change in Control Severance Plan  On December 6, 2006, our Board of Directors approved a Change of Control Severance Benefit Plan (CIC Plan). This CIC Plan has subsequently been amended a number of times by our Board of Directors
with the most recent amendment occurring on April 5, 2011. The CIC Plan is designed to make certain benefits available to eligible employees of the Company in the event of a change of control of the Company and, following such change of
control, an employee’s employment with the Company or a successor company is terminated in certain specified circumstances. We adopted the CIC Plan to support the continuity of the business in the context of a change of control transaction. The
CIC Plan was not adopted in contemplation of any specific change of control transaction. A brief description of the material terms and conditions of the CIC Plan is provided below. 
Under the CIC Plan, in the event of a change of control of the Company and a subsequent termination of employment initiated by the
Company or a successor company other than for Cause (as defined in the CIC Plan) or initiated by the employee for a Good Reason Resignation (as defined in the CIC Plan) in each case within twelve months following a change of control transaction,
(i) the Chief Executive Officer would be entitled to receive cash severance pay equal to 24 months base salary plus annual target incentive pay, the extension of employee benefits over this severance period and the full acceleration of
unvested outstanding equity awards, and (ii) the Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents (including Principal Fellows) would each be entitled to receive cash severance pay equal to twelve months base salary plus annual target incentive pay,
the extension of employee benefits over this severance period and the full acceleration of unvested outstanding equity awards. In the event of a change of control of the Company and a subsequent termination of employment initiated by the Company or
a successor company other than for cause within twelve months following a change of control transaction, all other employees would each be entitled to receive cash severance pay equal to 6 months base salary plus a pro-rata portion of annual
target incentive pay, the extension of employee benefits over this severance period and the full acceleration of each such employee’s unvested outstanding equity awards. Under the CIC Plan, as amended, non-employee directors would also be
entitled to full acceleration of vesting of all outstanding stock awards in the event of a change of control transaction. 
Note 9 — License and Collaboration Agreements 
We have entered into various license agreements and collaborative research, development and commercialization
agreements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Under these arrangements, we are entitled to receive license fees, upfront payments, milestone payments when and if certain development or regulatory milestones are achieved, royalties,
sales milestones when and if certain annual sales levels are achieved, payment for the manufacture and supply of our proprietary PEGylation materials and/or reimbursement for research and development activities. All of our collaboration agreements
are generally cancelable by our partners without significant financial penalty to the partner. Our costs of performing these services are included in research and development expense. 
  90 


Table of Contents
In accordance with these agreements, we recognized license, collaboration and other revenue
as follows (in thousands):   


















 
  
 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 Partner
  
 Agreement
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Baxter Healthcare
  
Hemophilia
  
$
5,646
  
  
$
1,701
  
  
$
2,055
  

 F. Hoffmann — La Roche
  
PEGASYS®
  
 
5,131
  
  
 
5,131
  
  
 
214
  

 Amgen, Inc.
  
Neulasta®
  
 
5,000
  
  
 
833
  
  
 
—  
  

 Bayer Healthcare LLC
  
BAY41-6551 (Amikacin Inhale)
  
 
2,992
  
  
 
3,300
  
  
 
4,928
  

 AstraZeneca AB
  
NKTR-118 and NKTR-119
  
 
2,496
  
  
 
107,854
  
  
 
25,073
  

 Other
  

  
 
15,024
  
  
 
5,553
  
  
 
4,373
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 License, collaboration and other revenue
  

  
$
36,289
  
  
$
124,372
  
  
$
36,643
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, our collaboration agreements with partners included potential future
payments for development milestones totaling approximately $179.3 million, including amounts from our agreements with Baxter and Bayer described below. In addition, we are entitled to receive up to $235.0 million and $75.0 million of contingent
payments related to NKTR-118 and NKTR-119, respectively, based on development and regulatory events to be pursued and completed solely by AstraZeneca.  Baxter Healthcare: Hemophilia  In September
2005, we entered into an exclusive research, development, license and manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxter Healthcare SA and Baxter Healthcare Corporation (Baxter) to develop products designed to improve therapies for Hemophilia A patients
using our PEGylation technology. In December 2007, we expanded our agreement with Baxter to include the license of our PEGylation technology with the potential to improve any future products Baxter may develop for Hemophilia B patients. Under the
terms of the agreement, we are entitled to research and development funding and are responsible for supplying Baxter with its requirements for our proprietary materials on a cost plus basis. Baxter is responsible for all clinical development,
regulatory, and commercialization expenses. The agreement is terminable by the parties under customary conditions. As of December 31, 2011, we are entitled to up to $28.0 million and $11.0 million of development milestones related to Hemophilia
A and Hemophilia B, respectively, upon achievement of certain development objectives, sales milestones upon achievement of annual sales targets, and royalties based on annual worldwide net sales of products resulting from this agreement. We received
upfront payments in 2005 and 2007 totaling $9.0 million and, as of December 31, 2011, we have deferred revenue from these payments of $5.7 million, which we expect to amortize through December 2027, the estimated end of our obligations under
the agreement.  F. Hoffmann- La Roche Ltd and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.: PEGASYS 
In February 1997, we entered into a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (Roche), under which we granted Roche a worldwide, exclusive license to certain intellectual property related to our proprietary PEGylation materials used in the manufacture and commercialization of PEGASYS. As a result
of Roche exercising a license extension option in December 2009, Roche has the right to manufacture all of its requirements for our proprietary PEGylation materials for PEGASYS and we would perform additional manufacturing, if any, only on an
as-requested basis. In connection with Roche’s exercise of the license extension option in December 2009, we received a payment of $31.0 million. As of December 31, 2011, we have deferred revenue of approximately $20.5 million
related to this agreement, which we expect to amortize through December 2015, the period through which we are required to provide back-up manufacturing and supply services on an as-requested basis. 
  91 


Table of Contents
Amgen, Inc.: Neulasta 
On October 29, 2010, we amended and restated an existing supply and license agreement by entering into a supply, dedicated suite and
manufacturing guarantee agreement (the amended and restated agreement) and a license agreement with Amgen Inc. and Amgen Manufacturing, Limited (together referred to as Amgen). Under the terms of the amended and restated agreement, we guarantee the
manufacture and supply of our proprietary PEGylation materials (Polymer Materials) to Amgen in an existing manufacturing suite to be used exclusively for the manufacture of Polymer Materials for Amgen (the Manufacturing Suite) in our manufacturing
facility in Huntsville, Alabama (Facility). This supply arrangement is on a non-exclusive basis (other than the use of the Manufacturing Suite and certain equipment) whereby Nektar is free to manufacture and supply the Polymer Materials to any other
third party and Amgen is free to procure the Polymer Materials from any other third party. Under the terms of the amended and restated agreement, we received a $50.0 million payment in the fourth quarter of 2010 in return for our guaranteeing the
supply of certain quantities of Polymer Materials to Amgen including without limitation the Additional Rights described below and manufacturing fees that are calculated based on fixed and variable components applicable to the Polymer Materials
ordered by Amgen and delivered by us. Amgen has no minimum purchase commitments. If quantities of the Polymer Materials ordered by Amgen exceed specified quantities, significant additional payments become payable to us in return for our guaranteeing
the supply of additional quantities of the Polymer Materials.  The term of the amended and restated agreement ends on
October 29, 2020. In the event we become subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, we cease to own or control the Facility, we fail to manufacture and supply or certain other events, Amgen or its designated third party will have the
right to elect, among certain other options, to take title to the dedicated equipment and access the Facility to operate the Manufacturing Suite solely for the purpose of manufacturing the Polymer Materials (the Additional Rights). Amgen may
terminate the amended and restated agreement for convenience or due to an uncured material default by us.  As of
December 31, 2011, we have deferred revenue of approximately $44.2 million, which we expect to amortize through October 2020, the estimated end of our obligations under the agreement. 
Bayer Healthcare LLC: BAY41-6551 (Amikacin Inhale) 
On August 1, 2007, we entered into a co-development, license and co-promotion agreement with Bayer Healthcare LLC (Bayer) to develop
a specially-formulated inhaled Amikacin. We are responsible for development and manufacturing and supply of the nebulizer device included in the Amikacin product. Bayer is responsible for most future clinical development and commercialization costs,
all activities to support worldwide regulatory filings, approvals and related activities, further development of Amikacin Inhale and final product packaging and distribution. We received an upfront payment of $40.0 million in 2007 and
performance milestone payments of $20.0 million, of which $10.0 million will be used to reimburse Bayer for Phase 3 clinical trial costs. We are entitled to up to $60.0 million of development milestones upon achievement of certain
development objectives, sales milestones upon achievement of annual sales targets, and royalties based on annual worldwide net sales of Amikacin Inhale. As of December 31, 2011, we have deferred revenue of approximately $27.4 million,
which we expect to amortize through July 2021, the estimated end of the life of the agreement.  AstraZeneca AB: NKTR-118 and
NKTR-119  On September 20, 2009, we entered into a License Agreement with AstraZeneca AB, a Swedish
corporation (AstraZeneca), under which we granted AstraZeneca a worldwide, exclusive, perpetual, royalty-bearing, and sublicensable license under our patents and other intellectual property to develop, market, sell and otherwise commercially exploit
NKTR-118 and NKTR-119. AstraZeneca is responsible for all costs associated with research, development and commercialization and will control drug development and commercialization decisions for NKTR-118 and NKTR-119. Under the terms of the
agreement, AstraZeneca paid us an upfront payment of $125.0 million, which we received in the fourth quarter of 2009, of which we recognized 
  92 


Table of Contents

$101.4 million and $23.6 million as license, collaboration and other revenue in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we completed
our obligations under the license agreement and related manufacturing technology transfer agreement. The upfront payment was amortized over approximately 15 months beginning in October 2009 in accordance with our performance obligation period and
was fully recognized as of December 31, 2010. As noted above, we are entitled to receive up to $235.0 million and $75.0 million of contingent payments related to NKTR-118 and NKTR-119, respectively, based on development events to be pursued and
completed solely by AstraZeneca. In particular, if the KODIAC study is successful and AstraZeneca files for regulatory approval with the FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA), Nektar will be entitled to $95.0 million of these milestones. We
will be entitled to the remaining $140.0 million of these milestones if NKTR-118 is approved by the FDA and EMA and commercial launch is achieved in the U.S. and one major country in the European Union. In addition, we are also entitled to sales
milestones and royalties based on annual worldwide net sales of NTKR-118 and NKTR-119 products.  Other 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, in addition to the revenues recognized from the collaboration agreements discussed above, we
also recorded license, collaboration and other revenue of approximately $15.0 million in connection with a number of our license and collaboration agreements. This revenue included an up-front payment from a new license agreement entered into in
2011, as well as revenues from milestone payments, amortization of upfront payments, and reimbursed research and development activities related to agreements entered into in previous years. 
In September 2011, we entered into a license agreement with a third party under which we granted a worldwide, exclusive, and
sublicensable license under certain of our patents and other intellectual property for a limited field that is unrelated to any of the therapeutic areas where we or our existing collaboration partners are currently developing drug candidates or have
approved drug products. Under the terms of the agreement, $10.0 million of license fees are due and payable to us, of which $5.0 million was received in October 2011. We are due the remaining license fee payments of $3.0 million and $2.0 million in
2013 and 2015, respectively. We completed our performance obligations upon the execution of the agreement and recognized as revenue the initial $5.0 million payment. 
Note 10 — Impairment of Long Lived Assets 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a charge for the impairment of long-lived assets of
$12.6 million. We did not record any such charge in 2009 or 2011.  On November 29, 2010, we ceased use of the
San Carlos facility as a result of our relocation to the Mission Bay Facility. The remaining assets at the San Carlos location consist of the building capital lease and related leasehold improvements. We have subleased a portion of the San
Carlos building and are currently seeking one or more subtenants for the remaining space through the lease termination date. As a result of our relocation, we performed an impairment analysis on these assets. We concluded that the carrying values of
the building and leasehold improvements exceeded their fair values based on a probability-weighted discounted cash flow model of the future estimated net sublease income and recorded an impairment loss of $12.6 million. As of December 31,
2011, the remaining net book value of these assets is $1.7 million. 
  93 


Table of Contents
Note 11 — Stock-Based Compensation 
We issue stock-based awards from our equity incentive plans, which are more fully described in Note 8. Stock-based
compensation expense was recognized as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Cost of goods sold
  
$
1,266
  
  
$
915
  
  
$
295
  

 Research and development
  
 
7,944
  
  
 
7,218
  
  
 
3,377
  

 General and administrative
  
 
9,675
  
  
 
9,266
  
  
 
6,654
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total stock-based compensation
  
$
18,885
  
  
$
17,399
  
  
$
10,326
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, total unrecognized compensation costs of $29.3 million related to unvested
stock-based compensation arrangements are expected to be recognized as expense over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. 
Black-Scholes Assumptions  The following tables list the Black-Scholes option-pricing model assumptions used to calculate the fair value of employee stock options and ESPP purchases. 
 




























 
  
    Year Ended December 31, 2011    

 
 
    Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
 
        Year Ended December 31, 2009  
  
 

 
  
Employee StockOptions
 
 
ESPP
 
 
EmployeeStock
Options
 
 
ESPP
 
 
Employee StockOptions
 
 
ESPP
 

 Average risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.6
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
1.8
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
0.3
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 

 Volatility factor
  
 
63.8
% 
 
 
53.6
% 
 
 
62.7
% 
 
 
47.8
% 
 
 
61.0
% 
 
 
82.4
% 

 Weighted average expected life
  
 
4.9 years
  
 
 
0.5 years
  
 
 
4.9 years
  
 
 
0.5 years
  
 
 
4.9 years
  
 
 
0.5 years
  
 The average risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect at the time
of grant for periods commensurate with the expected life of the stock-based award. We have never paid dividends, nor do we expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future; therefore, we used a dividend yield of 0.0%. Our estimate of expected
volatility is based on the daily historical trading data of our common stock over a historical period commensurate with the expected life of the stock-based award.  For the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we estimated the weighted-average expected life based on the contractual and vesting terms of the stock options, as well as historic
cancellation and exercise data. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted-average expected life was determined using the “simplified” method, in which the expected life was based on the average of the vesting term and the
contractual life of the option, as permitted under Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 14.D.2. The change in method did not result in a significant difference in weighted average expected life. 
  94 


Table of Contents
Summary of Stock Option Activity 
The table below presents a summary of stock option activity under our equity incentive plans (in thousands, except for price per share and
contractual life information):   




















 
  
NumberofShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercisePriceper Share
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualLife (in Years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic
Value(1)
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
16,899
  
 
$
9.40
  
  



  




 Options granted
  
 
2,808
  
 
 
9.68
  
  



  




 Options exercised
  
 
(785
) 
 
 
4.99
  
  



  




 Options forfeited & canceled
  
 
(1,876
) 
 
 
12.66
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
17,046
  
 
$
9.29
  
  
 
5.06
  
  
$
2,924
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
  
 
16,717
  
 
$
9.27
  
  
 
5.03
  
  
$
2,894
  

 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
11,174
  
 
$
9.08
  
  
 
4.38
  
  
$
2,051
  
  


(1)
Aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price of the option and the closing market price of our common stock on December 31, 2011.
 The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of options granted during the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $5.22, $6.30, and $2.86, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $3.7 million, $6.8 million, and
$1.4 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of options vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $18.1 million, $14.7 million, and $9.0 million, respectively. 
RSU Awards  We issued RSU awards to certain officers and employees. The RSU awards granted in 2006 vest upon achievement of pre-determined performance milestones, while the RSU awards granted in 2007 through 2010
have a time-based vesting schedule. There were no RSU awards granted in 2011. We expense the grant date fair value of the RSU awards ratably over the expected service or performance period. 
A summary of RSU award activity is as follows (in thousands except for per share amounts): 
 












 
  
Units Issued
 
 
AggregateIntrinsic
Value(1)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
223
  
 




 Granted
  
 
—  
  
 




 Released
  
 
(81
) 
 




 Forfeited and canceled
  
 
(6
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 




 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
136
  
 
$
760
  


  
  
  
 
 



  


(1)
Aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the grant price of the award and the closing market price of our common stock on December 31, 2011.

  95 


Table of Contents
Note 12 — Income Taxes 
For financial reporting purposes, “Loss before provision for income taxes,” includes the following components
(in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Domestic
  
$
(135,880
) 
 
$
(39,321
) 
 
$
(103,295
) 

 Foreign
  
 
2,920
  
 
 
2,264
  
 
 
523
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
(132,960
) 
 
$
(37,057
) 
 
$
(102,772
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes 
The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Current:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1
  
  
$
(522
) 

 State
  
 
1
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
(28
) 

 Foreign
  
 
921
  
  
 
698
  
  
 
352
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Current
  
 
922
  
  
 
701
  
  
 
(198
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 State
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Foreign
  
 
96
  
  
 
180
  
  
 
(55
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Deferred
  
 
96
  
  
 
180
  
  
 
(55
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
$
1,018
  
  
$
881
  
  
$
(253
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Income tax provision (benefit) related to continuing operations differs from the amount computed by
applying the statutory income tax rate of 35% to pretax loss as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 U.S. federal benefit
  



 



 




 At statutory rate
  
$
(46,536
) 
 
$
(12,970
) 
 
$
(35,970
) 

 State taxes
  
 
1
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(28
) 

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
48,959
  
 
 
15,123
  
 
 
34,327
  

 Foreign tax differential
  
 
(129
) 
 
 
86
  
 
 
114
  

 Unrecognized tax credits
  
 
(893
) 
 
 
(1,833
) 
 
 
(882
) 

 Expiring tax attributes
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,569
  

 Other
  
 
(384
) 
 
 
473
  
 
 
617
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,018
  
 
$
881
  
 
$
(253
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  96 


Table of Contents
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of loss and credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the carrying amount
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets for federal and state income taxes are as follows (in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Net operating loss carryforwards
  
$
342,128
  
 
$
318,257
  

 Research and other credits
  
 
51,125
  
 
 
49,657
  

 Capitalized research expenses
  
 
9,514
  
 
 
5,797
  

 Deferred revenue
  
 
48,732
  
 
 
31,411
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
8,081
  
 
 
7,654
  

 Reserve and accruals
  
 
8,083
  
 
 
5,732
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
32,268
  
 
 
28,157
  

 Other
  
 
3,895
  
 
 
4,275
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets before valuation allowance
  
 
503,826
  
 
 
450,940
  

 Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets
  
 
(503,689
) 
 
 
(450,781
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
137
  
 
 
159
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Property and equipment
  
 
(75
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(75
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
62
  
 
$
159
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon future earnings, if any, the timing and amount
of which are uncertain. Because of our lack of U.S. earnings history, the net U.S. deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The valuation allowance increased by $52.9 million and $8.3 million during
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The valuation allowance includes approximately $35.6 million of income tax benefit at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 related to stock-based compensation and
exercises prior to the implementation of ASC 515 and 718 that will be credited to additional paid in capital when realized.  Undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiary in India are considered to be permanently reinvested and accordingly, no deferred U.S. income taxes have been provided thereon. Upon distribution of
those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to U.S. income tax. At the present time it is not practicable to estimate the amount of U.S. income taxes that might be payable if these earnings were repatriated.
 Net Operating Loss and Tax Credit Carryforwards 
As of December 31, 2011, we had a net operating loss carryforward for federal income tax purposes of approximately
$874.0 million, portions of which will begin to expire in 2018. We had a total state net operating loss carryforward of approximately $584.8 million, which will begin to expire in 2012. Utilization of some of the federal and state net
operating loss and credit carryforwards are subject to annual limitations due to the “change in ownership” provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and similar state provisions. The annual limitations may result in the expiration of
net operating losses and credits before utilization. During January 2011, we sold 19 million shares of our common stock to the public. We do not believe this event created a “change in ownership.” 
  97 


Table of Contents
We have federal research credits of approximately $23.8 million, which will begin to
expire in 2019 and state research credits of approximately $14.0 million which have no expiration date. We have federal orphan drug credits of $13.0 million which will begin to expire in 2026. These tax credits are subject to the same
limitations discussed above.  Unrecognized tax benefits 
We have incurred net operating losses since inception and we do not have any significant unrecognized tax benefits. Our policy is to
include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, if any, within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. If we are eventually able to recognize our uncertain positions, our effective tax rate
would be reduced. We currently have a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset which would impact the timing of the effective tax rate benefit should any of these uncertain tax positions be favorably settled in the future. Any
adjustments to our uncertain tax positions would result in an adjustment of our net operating loss or tax credit carry forwards rather than resulting in a cash outlay.  We file income tax returns in the U.S., California, Alabama, India and the U.K. We are currently under examination in the U.S. for tax year 2009. We are also under examination in India for the 2008-2009
tax year. In February 2012, Alabama notified the Company that they will be examining certain prior year returns. Because of net operating losses and research credit carryovers, substantially all of our tax years remain open and subject to
examination.  We have the following activity relating to unrecognized tax benefits (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Beginning balance
  
$
13,058
  
  
$
13,084
  
 
$
11,660
  

 Tax positions related to current year Additions:
  



  



 




 Federal
  
 
297
  
  
 
259
  
 
 
415
  

 State
  
 
221
  
  
 
208
  
 
 
318
  

 Reductions
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Tax positions related to prior year Additions:
  



  



 




 Federal
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 State
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
691
  

 Reductions
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(493
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Settlements
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Lapses in statute of limitations
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
13,576
  
  
$
13,058
  
 
$
13,084
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Although it is reasonably possible that certain unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease within
the next twelve months due to tax examination changes, settlement activities, expirations of statute of limitations, or the impact on recognition and measurement considerations related to the results of published tax cases or other similar
activities, we do not anticipate any significant changes to unrecognized tax benefits over the next 12 months. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, no interest or penalties were required to be recognized relating to
unrecognized tax benefits. 
Note 13 — Segment Reporting 
We operate in one business segment which focuses on applying our technology platforms to improve the performance of
established and novel medicines. We operate in one segment because our business offerings have similar economics and other characteristics, including the nature of products and manufacturing processes, types

  98 


Table of Contents

of customers, distribution methods and regulatory environment. We are comprehensively managed as one business segment by our Chief Executive Officer and his management team. Within our one
business segment we have two components, PEGylation technology and pulmonary technology.  Our revenue is derived primarily
from clients in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Revenue from two of our partners, UCB and Roche, represented 27% and 16% of our revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. Revenue from AstraZeneca AB
represented 68% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. Two of our partners, AstraZeneca AB and UCB, represented 35% and 17%, respectively, of our total revenue during the year ended December 31, 2009. 
Revenue by geographic area is based on the locations of our partners. The following table sets forth revenue by geographic area (in
thousands):   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 United States
  
$
37,896
  
  
$
29,636
  
  
$
29,511
  

 European countries
  
 
33,584
  
  
 
129,403
  
  
 
42,420
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
$
71,480
  
  
$
159,039
  
  
$
71,931
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, $67.7 million, or approximately 86%, of the net book value of our
property and equipment was located in the United States and $10.9 million, or approximately 14%, was located in India. At December 31, 2010, $71.5 million, or approximately 80%, of the net book value of our property and equipment was
located in the United States and $18.3 million, or approximately 20%, was located in India. 
Note 14 — Subsequent Events 
Sale of CIMZIA® and MIRCERA® Royalties
 On February 24, 2012, we entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the “Purchase and
Sale Agreement”) with RPI Finance Trust (“RPI”), an affiliate of Royalty Pharma, pursuant to which, on February 29, 2012, we sold, and RPI purchased, our right to receive royalty payments (the “Royalty Entitlement”)
arising in respect of worldwide net sales, from and after January 1, 2012, of (a) CIMZIA®, under
Nektar’s license, manufacturing and supply agreement with UCB, and (b) MIRCERA®, under Nektar’s
license, manufacturing and supply agreement with Roche. We received an aggregate cash purchase price for the Royalty Entitlement of $124.0 million. Additionally, we incurred approximately $4.5 million in transaction costs. 
Pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, we are required to pay to RPI (a) $3.0 million if certain worldwide
net sales thresholds of MIRCERA® for the 12 month period ending on December 31, 2012 are not achieved and
(b) up to an additional $7.0 million if certain worldwide net sales thresholds of MIRCERA® for the 12 month
period ending on December 31, 2013 are not achieved. The Purchase and Sale Agreement grants RPI the right to receive certain reports and other information relating to the Royalty Entitlement and contains other representations and warranties,
covenants and indemnification obligations that are customary for a transaction of this nature. In particular, if we breach our obligations under the Purchase and Sale Agreement, we may be required to pay damages to RPI that could potentially exceed
the purchase price.  Except as described above, RPI is entitled only to the future royalty payments
arising from sales of CIMZIA® and MIRCERA®. However, we have significant continuing involvement in the generation of these future royalty payments through our ongoing manufacturing and supply obligations to
UCB and Roche. As a result, we will record a long-term liability on our consolidated balance sheet equal to the fair value of the 
  99 


Table of Contents

Purchase and Sale Agreement, which approximates the up-front purchase price, and will amortize the liability using the effective interest rate method over its estimated life. As a result of this
liability accounting, even though the royalties from UCB and Roche will be remitted directly to RPI, we will continue to record revenue for these royalties. The model used to estimate the fair value of the rights sold to RPI requires us to make
estimates regarding, among other things, the assumptions market participants would make regarding the timing and probability of achieving the royalties, as well as the appropriate discount rates. The effective interest rate under the agreement is
estimated to be approximately 17%.  During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we
recognized $8.3 million, $5.4 million, and $2.7 million, respectively, in aggregate royalties from net sales of
MIRCERA® and CIMZIA®.  We intend to use the net proceeds of this
agreement to in part repay the $215.0 million aggregate amount of outstanding 3.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due September 28, 2012.  Roche MIRCERA® Manufacturing Agreement 
On February 28, 2012, we entered into a toll-manufacturing agreement with Roche under which we will manufacture the
proprietary PEGylation material for MIRCERA®. Roche entered into the toll-manufacturing agreement with the
objective of establishing us as a secondary back-up source on a non-exclusive basis. Under the terms of the toll-manufacturing agreement, Roche agreed to pay us an up-front payment of $5.0 million plus a total of up to $22.0 million in
performance-based milestone payments upon our achievement of certain manufacturing readiness, validation and production milestones which are scheduled to be completed by the end of January 2013. There is a risk that we will not meet one or more of
the milestones on a timely basis or at all. Roche will also pay us additional consideration for any future orders of the PEGylation materials for MIRCERA® beyond the initial quantities scheduled to be manufactured and supplied in 2012. Roche may terminate the toll-manufacturing agreement due to an uncured material
default by us or for convenience under certain circumstances and subject to certain financial obligations.   
  100



Table of Contents
Note 15 — Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
The following table sets forth certain unaudited quarterly financial data. In our opinion, the unaudited information
set forth below has been prepared on the same basis as the audited information and includes all adjustments necessary to present fairly the information set forth herein. We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly results and expect these
fluctuations to continue in the future. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results will not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of
our future performance. Certain items previously reported in specific financial statement captions have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Such reclassifications have not impacted previously reported total revenues,
operating loss or net loss. All data is in thousands except per share information.   




































 
 
Fiscal Year 2011
 
 
Fiscal Year 2010
 

 
 
Q1
 
 
Q2
 
 
Q3
 
 
Q4
 
 
Q1
 
 
Q2
 
 
Q3
 
 
Q4
 

 Product sales
 
$
2,474
  
 
$
8,641
  
 
$
7,677
  
 
$
6,073
  
 
$
1,828
  
 
$
9,398
  
 
$
5,485
  
 
$
10,700
  

 Royalty revenues
 
$
2,319
  
 
$
2,367
  
 
$
2,545
  
 
$
3,095
  
 
$
1,756
  
 
$
1,756
  
 
$
1,745
  
 
$
1,999
  

 License, collaboration and other revenue
 
$
6,506
  
 
$
6,323
  
 
$
16,846
  
 
$
6,614
  
 
$
29,653
  
 
$
31,409
  
 
$
30,695
  
 
$
32,615
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
 
$
11,299
  
 
$
17,331
  
 
$
27,068
  
 
$
15,782
  
 
$
33,237
  
 
$
42,563
  
 
$
37,925
  
 
$
45,314
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit on product sales
 
$
(789
) 
 
$
501
  
 
$
2,639
  
 
$
623
  
 
$
(2,468
) 
 
$
4,509
  
 
$
(760
) 
 
$
463
  

 Research and development expenses
 
$
30,176
  
 
$
32,270
  
 
$
31,018
  
 
$
33,302
  
 
$
23,286
  
 
$
25,600
  
 
$
27,724
  
 
$
31,455
  

 General and administrative expenses
 
$
11,727
  
 
$
11,185
  
 
$
12,350
  
 
$
11,498
  
 
$
9,013
  
 
$
10,207
  
 
$
10,181
  
 
$
11,585
  

 Impairment of long lived assets
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
12,576
  

 Total operating costs and expenses
 
$
45,166
  
 
$
51,595
  
 
$
48,406
  
 
$
50,250
  
 
$
36,595
  
 
$
40,696
  
 
$
44,150
  
 
$
65,853
  

 Operating (loss) income
 
$
(33,867
) 
 
$
(34,264
) 
 
$
(21,338
) 
 
$
(34,468
) 
 
$
(3,358
) 
 
$
1,867
  
 
$
(6,225
) 
 
$
(20,539
) 

 Interest expense
 
$
2,585
  
 
$
2,570
  
 
$
2,543
  
 
$
2,525
  
 
$
2,951
  
 
$
2,909
  
 
$
2,826
  
 
$
2,488
  

 Net loss
 
$
(36,034
) 
 
$
(36,381
) 
 
$
(24,068
) 
 
$
(37,495
) 
 
$
(6,130
) 
 
$
(517
) 
 
$
(8,711
) 
 
$
(22,580
) 

 Basic and diluted net loss per share(1)
 
$
(0.33
) 
 
$
(0.32
) 
 
$
(0.21
) 
 
$
(0.33
) 
 
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
(0.01
) 
 
$
(0.09
) 
 
$
(0.24
) 
  


(1)
Quarterly loss per share amounts may not total to the year-to-date loss per share due to rounding. 
  101



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE II 
NEKTAR THERAPEUTICS  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
2011, 2010, and 2009   




















 Description
  
Balance 
atBeginningof Year
 
  
Charged toCosts
andExpenses,Net
ofReversals
 
  
Utilizations
 
 
Balance 
atEndof Year
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 2011:
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Allowance for inventory reserves
  
$
3,982
  
  
$
2,766
  
  
$
(4,309
) 
 
$
2,439
  

 2010:
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Allowance for inventory reserves
  
$
3,336
  
  
$
1,012
  
  
$
(366
) 
 
$
3,982
  

 2009:
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
92
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(92
) 
 
$
—  
  

 Allowance for inventory reserves
  
$
4,989
  
  
$
2,109
  
  
$
(3,762
) 
 
$
3,336
  

  102



Table of Contents


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
Not applicable.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures  We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) reports is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate,
to allow timely decisions regarding required financial disclosure.  As of the end of the period covered by this report, we
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon, and as of the date of, this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. Accordingly,
management believes that the financial statements included in this report fairly present in all material respects our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. 
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined
in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with GAAP.  Our management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making its assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management used the criteria described in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on our evaluation under the framework described in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.  The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is
included herein.  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
We continuously seek to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our internal controls. This results in refinements to processes
throughout the Company. There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, which was identified in connection with our management’s evaluation required by Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls  Our management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how
well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all 
  103



Table of Contents

control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations
include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more
people or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its
stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a
cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.   


Item 9B.
Other Information  None. 
  104



Table of Contents
PART III 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  Information relating to our executive officers required by this item is set forth in Part I — Item 1 of this report under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant”
and is incorporated herein by reference. The other information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant to
Regulation 14A (Proxy Statement) not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K under the captions “Corporate Governance and Board of Directors,” “Proposal 1 — Election
of Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.”  Information regarding our
audit committee financial expert will be set forth in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Audit Committee,” which information is incorporated herein by reference.  We have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to all employees, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller, or persons
performing similar functions. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on our website at www.nektar.com. Amendments to, and waivers from, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that apply to any of these officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and that relate to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K will be disclosed at the website address provided above and, to the extent required by applicable
regulations, on a current report on Form 8-K.  As permitted by SEC Rule 10b5-1, certain of our executive officers,
directors and other employees have or may set up a predefined, structured stock trading program with their broker to sell our stock. The stock trading program allows a broker acting on behalf of the executive officer, director or other employee to
trade our stock during blackout periods or while such executive officer, director or other employee may be aware of material, nonpublic information, if the trade is performed according to a pre-existing contract, instruction or plan that was
established with the broker when such executive officer, director or employee was not aware of any material, nonpublic information. Our executive officers, directors and other employees may also trade our stock outside of the stock trading programs
set up under Rule 10b5-1 subject to our securities trading policy.   


Item 11.
Executive Compensation  The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein by reference.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein by reference. 
 


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 
The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein by reference. 
 


Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services  The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein by reference. 
  105



Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:  (1)
Consolidated Financial Statements:   The following financial statements are filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K under Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”   








 
  
Page
 

 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
69
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
71
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
72
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
 2011
  
 
73
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
74
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
75
  
 (2) Financial Statement Schedules:  
Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves, is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under
Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. All other financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable, or the information required is presented in our consolidated financial statements and
notes thereto under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  (3) Exhibits.  
Except as so indicated in Exhibit 32.1, the following exhibits are filed as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.   






 Exhibit Number
 
 Description of Documents




  2.1(1)
 
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated October 20, 2008, by and between Nektar Therapeutics, a Delaware corporation, AeroGen, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary
of Nektar Therapeutics, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and Novartis Pharma AG, a Swiss corporation.+




  3.1(2)
 
Certificate of Incorporation of Inhale Therapeutic Systems (Delaware), Inc.




  3.2(3)
 
Certificate of Amendment of the Amended Certificate of Incorporation of Inhale Therapeutic Systems, Inc.




  3.3(4)
 
Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Nektar Therapeutics.




  3.4(5)
 
Certificate of Designation of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock of Nektar Therapeutics.




  3.5(6)
 
Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Nektar Therapeutics.




  3.6(7)
 
Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Nektar Therapeutics AL, Corporation with and into Nektar Therapeutics.




  3.7(8)
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Nektar Therapeutics.




  4.1
 
Reference is made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7.
  106



Table of Contents






 Exhibit Number
 
 Description of Documents




  4.2(6)
 
Specimen Common Stock certificate.




  4.3(9)
 
Indenture, dated September 28, 2005, by and between Nektar Therapeutics, as Issuer, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee.




  4.4(9)
 
Registration Right Agreement, dated as of September 28, 2005, among Nektar Therapeutics and entities named therein.




10.1(10)
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated.++




10.2(18)
 
2000 Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.++




10.3(18)
 
2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.++




10.4(18)
 
2008 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.++




10.5(18)
 
Amended and Restated Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.++




10.6(11)
 
401(k) Retirement Plan.++




10.7(18)
 
2011 Discretionary Incentive Compensation Policy.++




10.8(18)
 
Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Benefit Plan.++




10.9(12)
 
Form of Severance Letter for executive officers of the company.++




10.10(1)
 
Amended and Restated Letter Agreement, executed effective on December 1, 2008, with Howard W. Robin.++




10.11(1)
 
Amended and Restated Letter Agreement, executed effective on December 1, 2008, with John Nicholson.++




10.12(16)
 
Letter Agreement, executed effective on December 10, 2009, with Stephen K. Doberstein, Ph.D.++




10.13(17)
 
Separation and General Release Agreement between Nektar Therapeutics and Randall W. Moreadith, M.D., Ph.D., dated November 23, 2009.++




10.14(14)
 
Separation and General Release Agreement between Nektar Therapeutics and Bharatt M. Chowrira, Ph.D., J.D., dated December 23, 2010.++




10.15(12)
 
Amended and Restated Built-to-Suite Lease between Nektar Therapeutics and BMR-201 Industrial Road LLC, dated August 17, 2004, as amended on January 11, 2005 and
July 19, 2007.




10.16(15)
 
Sublease, dated as of September 30, 2009, by and between Pfizer Inc. and Nektar Therapeutics.+




10.17(13)
 
Settlement Agreement and General Release, dated June 30, 2006, by and between The Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama, The University of Alabama in Huntsville,
Nektar Therapeutics AL Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nektar Therapeutics), Nektar Therapeutics and J. Milton Harris.




10.18(16)
 
Co-Development, License and Co-Promotion Agreement, dated August 1, 2007, between Nektar Therapeutics (and its subsidiaries) and Bayer Healthcare LLC, as
amended.+




10.19(1)
 
Exclusive Research, Development, License and Manufacturing and Supply Agreement, by and among Nektar AL Corporation, Baxter Healthcare SA, and Baxter Healthcare Corporation, dated
September 26, 2005, as amended.+
  107



Table of Contents






 Exhibit Number
 
 Description of Documents




10.20(1)
 
Exclusive License Agreement, dated December 31, 2008, between Nektar Therapeutics, a Delaware corporation, and Novartis Pharma AG, a Swiss corporation.+




10.21(16)
 
Supply, Dedicated Suite and Manufacturing Guarantee Agreement, dated October 29, 2010, by and among Nektar Therapeutics, Amgen Inc. and Amgen Manufacturing,
Limited.+




10.22(15)
 
License Agreement by and between AstraZeneca AB and Nektar Therapeutics, dated September 20, 2009.+




21.1(18)
 
Subsidiaries of Nektar Therapeutics.




23.1(18)
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




24
 
Power of Attorney (reference is made to the signature page).




31.1(18)
 
Certification of Nektar Therapeutics’ principal executive officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).




31.2(18)
 
Certification of Nektar Therapeutics’ principal financial officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).




32.1*(18)
 
Section 1350 Certifications.




101**
 
The following materials from Nektar Therapeutics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting
Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.
  


+
Confidential treatment with respect to specific portions of this Exhibit has been requested, and such portions are omitted and have been filed separately with the SEC.



++
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 


*
Exhibit 32.1 is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange
Act, except as otherwise stated in such filing. 


**
Furnished herewith. 


(1)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.



(2)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.



(3)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000.



(4)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 4, 2001. 


(5)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 8, 2002.



(6)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 23, 2003.



(7)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.



(8)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on April 11, 2011. 
  108



Table of Contents


(9)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on September 28, 2005.



(10)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-98321), filed on August 19,
2002. 


(11)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.



(12)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.



(13)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.



(14)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 30, 2010.



(15)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.



(16)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. 


(17)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 30, 2009.



(18)
Filed herewith. 
  109



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City and County of San Francisco, State of California on February 29, 2012.   






By:
 
 /s/    JOHN NICHOLSON


 
John Nicholson


 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer




 By:
 
 /s/    JILLIAN B.
THOMSEN


 
Jillian B. Thomsen


 
Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer
 POWER OF ATTORNEY  KNOW ALL PERSON BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John Nicholson and Jillian B. Thomsen and each of them, as his or her true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file
the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every
act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratify and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or
their or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated:   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /S/  HOWARD W. ROBIN
Howard W. Robin
  
 Chief Executive Officer, President and Director (Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/  JOHN NICHOLSON
John Nicholson
  
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/   JILLIAN B.
THOMSEN Jillian B. Thomsen
  
Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/  ROBERT B. CHESS
Robert B. Chess
  
Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/  R. SCOTT GREER
R. Scott Greer
  
Director
 
February 29, 2012
  110



Table of Contents








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /S/  JOSEPH J. KRIVULKA
Joseph J. Krivulka
  
Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/  CHRISTOPHER A.
KUEBLER Christopher A. Kuebler
  
Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/  LUTZ LINGNAU
Lutz Lingnau
  
Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/  SUSAN WANG
Susan Wang
  
Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/  ROY A. WHITFIELD
Roy A. Whitfield
  
Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /S/  DENNIS L. WINGER 
Dennis L. Winger
  
Director
 
February 29, 2012

  111



Table of Contents
Except as so indicated in Exhibit 32.1, the following exhibits are filed as part of, or
incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   






 Exhibit
Number
 
 Description of Documents




  2.1(1)
 
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated October 20, 2008, by and between Nektar Therapeutics, a Delaware corporation, AeroGen, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary
of Nektar Therapeutics, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and Novartis Pharma AG, a Swiss corporation.+




  3.1(2)
 
Certificate of Incorporation of Inhale Therapeutic Systems (Delaware), Inc.




  3.2(3)
 
Certificate of Amendment of the Amended Certificate of Incorporation of Inhale Therapeutic Systems, Inc.




  3.3(4)
 
Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Nektar Therapeutics.




  3.4(5)
 
Certificate of Designation of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock of Nektar Therapeutics.




  3.5(6)
 
Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Nektar Therapeutics.




  3.6(7)
 
Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Nektar Therapeutics AL, Corporation with and into Nektar Therapeutics.




  3.7(8)
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Nektar Therapeutics.




  4.1
 
Reference is made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7.




  4.2(6)
 
Specimen Common Stock certificate.




  4.3(9)
 
Indenture, dated September 28, 2005, by and between Nektar Therapeutics, as Issuer, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee.




  4.4(9)
 
Registration Right Agreement, dated as of September 28, 2005, among Nektar Therapeutics and entities named therein.




10.1(10)
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated.++




10.2(18)
 
2000 Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.++




10.3(18)
 
2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.++




10.4(18)
 
2008 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.++




10.5(18)
 
Amended and Restated Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.++




10.6(11)
 
401(k) Retirement Plan.++




10.7(18)
 
2011 Discretionary Incentive Compensation Policy.++




10.8(18)
 
Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Benefit Plan.++




10.9(12)
 
Form of Severance Letter for executive officers of the company.++




10.10(1)
 
Amended and Restated Letter Agreement, executed effective on December 1, 2008, with Howard W. Robin.++




10.11(1)
 
Amended and Restated Letter Agreement, executed effective on December 1, 2008, with John Nicholson.++




10.12(16)
 
Letter Agreement, executed effective on December 10, 2009, with Stephen K. Doberstein, Ph.D.++




10.13(17)
 
Separation and General Release Agreement between Nektar Therapeutics and Randall W. Moreadith, M.D., Ph.D., dated November 23,
2009.++
  112



Table of Contents






 Exhibit
Number
 
 Description of Documents

10.14(14)
 
Separation and General Release Agreement between Nektar Therapeutics and Bharatt M. Chowrira, Ph.D., J.D., dated December 23, 2010.++




10.15(12)
 
Amended and Restated Built-to-Suite Lease between Nektar Therapeutics and BMR-201 Industrial Road LLC, dated August 17, 2004, as amended on January 11, 2005 and
July 19, 2007.




10.16(15)
 
Sublease, dated as of September 30, 2009, by and between Pfizer Inc. and Nektar Therapeutics.+




10.17(13)
 
Settlement Agreement and General Release, dated June 30, 2006, by and between The Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama, The University of Alabama in Huntsville,
Nektar Therapeutics AL Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nektar Therapeutics), Nektar Therapeutics and J. Milton Harris.




10.18(16)
 
Co-Development, License and Co-Promotion Agreement, dated August 1, 2007, between Nektar Therapeutics (and its subsidiaries) and Bayer Healthcare LLC, as
amended.+




10.19(1)
 
Exclusive Research, Development, License and Manufacturing and Supply Agreement, by and among Nektar AL Corporation, Baxter Healthcare SA, and Baxter Healthcare Corporation, dated
September 26, 2005, as amended.+




10.20(1)
 
Exclusive License Agreement, dated December 31, 2008, between Nektar Therapeutics, a Delaware corporation, and Novartis Pharma AG, a Swiss corporation.+




10.21(16)
 
Supply, Dedicated Suite and Manufacturing Guarantee Agreement, dated October 29, 2010, by and among Nektar Therapeutics, Amgen Inc. and Amgen Manufacturing,
Limited.+




10.22(15)
 
License Agreement by and between AstraZeneca AB and Nektar Therapeutics, dated September 20, 2009.+




21.1(18)
 
Subsidiaries of Nektar Therapeutics.




23.1(18)
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




24
 
Power of Attorney (reference is made to the signature page).




31.1(18)
 
Certification of Nektar Therapeutics’ principal executive officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).




31.2(18)
 
Certification of Nektar Therapeutics’ principal financial officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).




32.1*(18)
 
Section 1350 Certifications.




101**
 
The following materials from Nektar Therapeutics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting
Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.
  


+
Confidential treatment with respect to specific portions of this Exhibit has been requested, and such portions are omitted and have been filed separately with the SEC.



++
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 


*
Exhibit 32.1 is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange
Act, except as otherwise stated in such filing. 


**
Furnished herewith. 
  113



Table of Contents


(1)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.



(2)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.



(3)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000.



(4)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 4, 2001. 


(5)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 8, 2002.



(6)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 23, 2003.



(7)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.



(8)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on April 11, 2011. 


(9)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on September 28, 2005.



(10)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-98321), filed on August 19,
2002. 


(11)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.



(12)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.



(13)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.



(14)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 30, 2010.



(15)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.



(16)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.



(17)
Incorporated by reference to the indicated exhibit in Nektar Therapeutics’ Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 30, 2009.



(18)
Filed herewith. 
  114




