
10-K
1
d270035d10k.htm
10-K


10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  Form 10-K
  


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
Or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from
                     to                     
 Commission File Number 1-13102 
   
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC.  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)   






Maryland
 
36-3935116

(State or other jurisdiction of
 
(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)
 
Identification No.)




311 S. Wacker Drive,Suite 3900, Chicago, Illinois
 
60606

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 (312) 344-4300  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  Common Stock 
(Title of Class)  New York Stock Exchange  (Name of exchange on which registered)
 Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/10,000 of a Share of 7.25% Series J Cumulative Preferred Stock
 Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/10,000 of a Share of 7.25% Series K Cumulative Preferred Stock
 (Title of class)  New York Stock Exchange  (Name of exchange on which registered)
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None   
  Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  ¨    No  þ  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.    Yes  ¨    No  þ
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files).    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one):   










Large accelerated filer
 
þ
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes  ¨    No  þ 
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $986.0 million
based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on June 30, 2011.  At February 28, 2012,
86,733,657 shares of the Registrant’s Common Stock, $0.01 par value, were outstanding.   
  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Part III incorporates certain information by reference to the Registrant’s definitive
proxy statement expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the Registrant’s fiscal year.   
   


Table of Contents
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   










 
 
 
  
Page
 

PART I.
  




 Item 1.
 
Business
  
 
4
  

 Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
  
 
8
  

 Item 1B.
 
Unresolved SEC Comments
  
 
15
  

 Item 2.
 
Properties
  
 
15
  

 Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
  
 
20
  

 Item 4.
 
Mine Safety Disclosures 
  
 
20
  

PART II.
  




 Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
21
  

 Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
  
 
23
  

 Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
24
  

 Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
42
  

 Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
42
  

 Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
42
  

 Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
  
 
43
  

 Item 9B.
 
Other Information
  
 
43
  

PART III.
  




 Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
44
  

 Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation
  
 
44
  

 Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
44
  

 Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
  
 
44
  

 Item 14.
 
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
44
  

PART IV.
  




 Item 15.
 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
45
  

 Signatures 
  
 
S-23
  

  2 


Table of Contents
This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking
statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are including this statement for purposes of complying with those safe harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and
describe future plans, strategies and expectations of the Company, are generally identifiable by use of the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,”
“seek,” “target,” “potential,” “focus,” “may,” “should” or similar expressions. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain.
Factors which could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and future prospects include, but are not limited to: changes in national, international, regional and local economic conditions generally and real estate markets specifically;
changes in legislation/regulation (including changes to laws governing the taxation of real estate investment trusts) and actions of regulatory authorities (including the Internal Revenue Service); our ability to qualify and maintain our status as a
real estate investment trust; the availability and attractiveness of financing (including both public and private capital) to us and to our potential counterparties; the availability and attractiveness of terms of additional debt repurchases;
interest rates; our credit agency ratings; our ability to comply with applicable financial covenants; competition; changes in supply and demand for industrial properties (including land, the supply and demand for which is inherently more volatile
than other types of industrial property) in the Company’s current and proposed market areas; difficulties in consummating acquisitions and dispositions; risks related to our investments in properties through joint ventures; environmental
liabilities; slippages in development or lease-up schedules; tenant creditworthiness; higher-than-expected costs; changes in asset valuations and related impairment charges; changes in general accounting principles, policies and guidelines
applicable to real estate investment trusts; international business risks and those additional factors described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We
caution you not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement
forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., First Industrial, L.P. and their controlled
subsidiaries. We refer to our operating partnership, First Industrial, L.P., as the “Operating Partnership.” 
  3 


Table of Contents
PART I  THE COMPANY  Item 1. Business
 General 
First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. is a Maryland corporation organized on August 10, 1993, and is a real estate investment trust
(“REIT”) as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”). We are a self-administered and fully integrated real estate company which owns, manages, acquires, sells, develops, and redevelops industrial real estate. As
of December 31, 2011, our in-service portfolio consisted of 354 light industrial properties, 113 R&D/flex properties, 159 bulk warehouse properties, 105 regional warehouse properties and eight manufacturing properties containing
approximately 66.3 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) located in 26 states in the United States and one province in Canada. Our in-service portfolio includes all properties other than developed, redeveloped and
acquired properties that have not yet reached stabilized occupancy (generally defined as properties that are 90% leased). Properties which are at least 75% occupied at acquisition are placed in-service. Acquired properties less than 75% occupied are
placed in-service upon the earlier of reaching 90% occupancy or one year from the acquisition date. Development properties are placed in-service upon the earlier of reaching 90% occupancy or one year from the date construction is completed.
Redevelopments (generally projects which require capital expenditures exceeding 25% of basis) are placed in-service upon the earlier of reaching 90% occupancy or one year from the completion of renovation construction. 
Our interests in our properties and land parcels are held through partnerships, corporations, and limited liability companies controlled,
directly or indirectly, by the Company, including the Operating Partnership, of which we are the sole general partner with an approximate 94.3% and 92.8% ownership interest at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and
through our taxable REIT subsidiaries. We also conduct operations through other partnerships and limited liability companies, the operating data of which, together with that of the Operating Partnership and the taxable REIT subsidiaries, is
consolidated with that of the Company as presented herein.  We also own noncontrolling equity interests in, and provide
services to, two joint ventures (the “2003 Net Lease Joint Venture” and the “2007 Europe Joint Venture”). During 2010, we provided various services to, and ultimately disposed of our equity interests in, five joint ventures (the
“2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture,” the “2005 Core Joint Venture,” the “2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program,” the “2006 Land/Development Joint Venture” and the “2007 Canada Joint
Venture;” together with the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture and the 2007 Europe Joint Venture, the “Joint Ventures”). The Joint Ventures are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the operating data of our
Joint Ventures is not consolidated with that of the Company as presented herein. The 2007 Europe Joint Venture does not own any properties. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Joint Ventures.
 We utilize an operating approach which combines the effectiveness of decentralized, locally-based property management,
acquisition, sales and development functions with the cost efficiencies of centralized acquisition, sales and development support, capital markets expertise, asset management and fiscal control systems. At February 28, 2012, we had 176 employees.
 We maintain a website at www.firstindustrial.com. Information on this website shall not constitute part of this
Form 10-K. Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports are available without charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after
such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee Charter,
along with supplemental financial and operating information prepared by us, are all available without charge on our website or upon request to us. Amendments 
  4 


Table of Contents

to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that apply to our executive officers or directors will also be posted to our website. We also post or otherwise make available on our
website from time to time other information that may be of interest to our investors. Please direct requests as follows:  First
Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.  311 S. Wacker, Suite 3900 
Chicago, IL 60606 
Attention: Investor Relations 
Business Objectives and Growth Plans  Our fundamental business objective is to maximize the total return to our stockholders through per share distributions and increases in the value of our properties and operations. Our long-term business
growth plans include the following elements:   


 
•
 
 Internal Growth. We seek to grow internally by (i) increasing revenues by renewing or re-leasing spaces subject to expiring leases at
higher rental levels; (ii) increasing occupancy levels at properties where vacancies exist and maintaining occupancy elsewhere; (iii) controlling and minimizing property operating and general and administrative expenses; and
(iv) renovating existing properties.   


 
•
 
 External Growth. We seek to grow externally through (i) the development of industrial properties; (ii) the acquisition of
portfolios of industrial properties, industrial property businesses or individual properties which meet our investment parameters and target markets; (iii) additional joint venture investments; and (iv) the expansion of our properties.
 Our ability to pursue our long-term growth plans is affected by market conditions and our financial
condition and operating capabilities.  Business Strategies  We utilize the following six strategies in connection with the operation of our business:   


 
•
 
 Organization Strategy. We implement our decentralized property operations strategy through the deployment of experienced regional
management teams and local property managers. We provide acquisition, development and financing assistance, asset management oversight and financial reporting functions from our headquarters in Chicago, Illinois to support our regional operations.
We believe the size of our portfolio enables us to realize operating efficiencies by spreading overhead among many properties and by negotiating purchasing discounts. 
 


 
•
 
 Market Strategy. Our market strategy is to concentrate on the top industrial real estate markets in the United States. These markets have
one or more of the following characteristics: (i) strong industrial real estate fundamentals, including improving industrial demand expectations; (ii) a history of industry diversity and outlook for economic growth; and
(iii) sufficient size to provide opportunity for ample transaction volume.   


 
•
 
 Leasing and Marketing Strategy. We have an operational management strategy designed to enhance tenant satisfaction and portfolio
performance. We pursue an active leasing strategy, which includes broadly marketing available space, seeking to renew existing leases at higher rents per square foot and seeking leases which provide for the pass-through of property-related expenses
to the tenant. We also have local and national marketing programs which focus on the business and real estate brokerage communities and national tenants. 
 


 
•
 
 Acquisition/Development Strategy. Our acquisition/development strategy is to invest in properties and other assets in the top industrial
real estate markets in the United States.   


 
•
 
 Financing Strategy. To finance acquisitions, developments and debt maturities, as market conditions permit, we utilize a portion of
proceeds from property sales, proceeds from mortgage financings, line 
  5 


Table of Contents


 
 
of credit borrowings under our new $450 million unsecured credit facility, and proceeds from the issuance, when and as warranted, of additional equity securities (see Recent Developments). We
also continually evaluate joint venture arrangements as another source of capital. As of February 28, 2012, we had approximately $262.4 million available for additional borrowings under our new $450 million unsecured credit facility.
  


 
•
 
 Disposition Strategy. We continuously evaluate local market conditions and property-related factors in all of our markets for purposes of
identifying assets suitable for disposition. During 2010, management identified a pool of real estate assets (the “Non-Strategic Assets”) that it intends to sell. At December 31, 2011, the Non-Strategic Assets consisted of 133
industrial properties comprising approximately 11.3 million square feet of GLA and land parcels comprising approximately 359 gross acres.  Recent Developments  During December 2011, we entered into a new $450
million unsecured revolving credit agreement (the “Unsecured Credit Facility”). The Unsecured Credit Facility provides for interest only payments initially at LIBOR plus 210 basis points or at a base rate plus 210 basis points, at our
election, based on our leverage ratio. The Unsecured Credit Facility matures on December 12, 2014, unless extended an additional year at our election, subject to certain conditions. We may request that the maximum borrowing capacity under the
Unsecured Credit Facility be increased to $500 million, subject to certain conditions. The Unsecured Credit Facility replaces our previous $400 million credit facility (the “Old Credit Facility”). Our Old Credit Facility commitment was for
a $200 million term borrowing, $100 million of which was paid off earlier in 2011, and an aggregate $200 million of revolving borrowings. For the term borrowing, the Old Credit Facility required interest-only payments through March 29, 2012 at
LIBOR plus 325 basis points or at a base rate plus 225 basis points, at our election. For the revolving borrowings, the Old Credit Facility provided for interest only payments at LIBOR plus 275 or at a base rate plus 175 basis points, at our
election. At the time the Unsecured Credit Facility was executed, we wrote off $1.2 million of unamortized deferred financing costs during 2011 related to the replacement of the Old Credit Facility, which is reflected as loss from retirement of debt
on our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we acquired one industrial
property comprising approximately 0.7 million square feet of GLA in connection with the purchase of the 85% equity interest in one property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture at a cap rate of 8.4%. The cap rate
was calculated by annualizing the contract rent in place at the time of acquisition and dividing it by the gross agreed upon fair value for the real estate. The acquisition was funded with a cash payment of $5.3 million and the assumption of a
mortgage loan in the amount of $24.4 million. We also sold 36 industrial properties, at a weighted average cap rate of 6.3%, and one parcel of land for an aggregate gross sales price of $86.6 million. The cap rate is calculated by taking revenues of
the property (excluding straight-line rent, lease inducement amortization and above and below market lease amortization) less operating expenses of the property for a period of twelve months prior to sale and dividing the sum by the sales price of
the property. Included in the 36 industrial properties sold is one industrial property totaling approximately 0.4 million square feet of GLA that we transferred title to a lender in satisfaction of a non-recourse mortgage loan (See Note 6 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements). At December 31, 2011, we owned 739 in-service industrial properties containing approximately 66.3 million square feet of GLA.  During 2011, we repurchased and retired prior to maturity $112.8 million of our senior unsecured notes and recognized a loss from retirement of debt on our Consolidated Statement of Operations of $2.0
million. Also, we paid off and retired our 2011 Exchangeable Notes, at maturity, in the amount of $128.9 million.  During
2011, we originated $255.9 million in mortgage financings at a weighted average interest rate of 4.57%, with maturities ranging between June 2018 and October 2021. Also, we paid off and/or retired $62.7 million in mortgage loans payable and
recognized a loss on debt retirement of $2.1 million. 
  6 


Table of Contents
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we issued 17,300,000 shares of the
Company’s common stock, generating $201.4 million in net proceeds, in underwritten public offerings. Additionally, we issued 115,856 shares of the Company’s common stock, generating $1.4 million in net proceeds, under the Company’s
“at-the-market” equity offering program (“ATM”).  Future Property Acquisitions, Developments and Property Sales
 We have acquisition and development programs through which we seek to identify portfolio and individual industrial
property acquisitions and developments.  We also sell properties based on market conditions and property-related factors. As a
result, we are currently engaged in negotiations relating to the possible sale of certain industrial properties in our portfolio.  When evaluating potential industrial property acquisitions and developments, as well as potential industrial property sales, we will consider such factors as: (i) the geographic area and type of
property; (ii) the location, construction quality, condition and design of the property; (iii) the terms of tenant leases, including the potential for rent increases; (iv) the potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory
environment of the area in which the property is located; (v) the occupancy and demand by tenants for properties of a similar type in the vicinity; (vi) competition from existing properties and the potential for the construction of new
properties in the area. (vii) the potential for capital appreciation of the property; (viii) the ability to improve the property’s performance through renovation; and (ix) the potential for expansion of the physical layout of the
property and/or the number of sites.  INDUSTRY  Industrial properties are typically used for the design, assembly, packaging, storage and distribution of goods and/or the provision of services. As a result, the demand for industrial space in the United
States is related to the level of economic output. For the five years ended December 31, 2011, the national occupancy rate for industrial properties in the United States has ranged from 85.4%* to 90.4%*, with an occupancy rate of 86.4%* at
December 31, 2011.   
*  Source: CBRE Econometric Advisors 
  7 


Table of Contents


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  Risk
Factors  Our operations involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow, ability to pay distributions on our common stock and the market price of our common stock. These risks, among others contained in our other filings with the SEC, include: 
Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing and negatively impact our liquidity, financial
condition and operating results.  From time to time the capital and credit markets in the United States and other
countries experience significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which can cause the market prices of many securities and the spreads on prospective debt financings to fluctuate substantially. These circumstances can
materially impact liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases result in the unavailability of financing. A significant amount of our existing indebtedness was sold through capital
markets transactions. We anticipate that the capital markets could be a source of refinancing of our existing indebtedness in the future. This source of refinancing may not be available if capital market volatility and disruption occurs.
Furthermore, we could potentially lose access to available liquidity under our Unsecured Credit Facility if one or more participating lenders were to default on their commitments. If our ability to issue additional debt or equity securities, to
finance future acquisitions, developments and redevelopments and Joint Venture activities or to borrow money under our Unsecured Credit Facility were to be impaired by capital market volatility and disruption, it could have a material adverse effect
on our liquidity and financial condition.  In addition, capital and credit market price volatility could make the valuation of
our properties more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties that could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties. As a result, we may not be able to
recover the carrying amount of our properties, which may require us to recognize an impairment loss in earnings.  Real
estate investments’ value fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may limit the Company’s revenues and available cash. 
The factors that affect the value of our real estate and the revenues we derive from our properties include, among other things:
  


 
•
 
 general economic conditions;   


 
•
 
 local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties;
  


 
•
 
 local conditions such as oversupply or a reduction in demand in an area; 
 


 
•
 
 the attractiveness of the properties to tenants;   


 
•
 
 tenant defaults;   


 
•
 
 zoning or other regulatory restrictions;   


 
•
 
 competition from other available real estate;   


 
•
 
 our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; and 
 


 
•
 
 increased operating costs, including insurance premiums and real estate taxes. 
These factors may be amplified in light of the disruption of the global credit markets. Our investments in real estate assets are
concentrated in the industrial sector, and the demand for industrial space in the United States 
  8 


Table of Contents

is related to the level of economic output. Accordingly, reduced economic output may lead to lower occupancy rates for our properties. In addition, if any of our tenants experiences a downturn in
its business that weakens its financial condition, delays lease commencement, fails to make rental payments when due, becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy, the result could be a termination of the tenant’s lease, which could adversely
affect our cash flow from operations.  Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from properties decreases.
 Our financial results depend on leasing space to tenants on terms favorable to us. Our income and funds available for
distribution to our stockholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or we are unable to lease properties on favorable terms. In addition, if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our
rights as landlord without delays and we may incur substantial legal costs. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from
the investment.  The Company may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are not
as liquid as certain other types of assets.  Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly, which will tend
to limit our ability to adjust our property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. The inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our property portfolio could adversely affect our financial
condition and ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, like other companies qualifying as REITs under the Code, we must comply with the safe harbor rules relating to the number of properties disposed of in a
year, their tax basis and the cost of improvements made to the properties, or meet other tests which enable a REIT to avoid punitive taxation on the sale of assets. Thus, our ability at any time to sell assets may be restricted. 
The Company may be unable to sell properties on advantageous terms. 
We have sold to third parties a significant number of properties in recent years and, as part of our business, we intend to continue to
sell properties to third parties. Our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our
properties. If we are unable to sell properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property sales in accordance with our business strategy, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on,
and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected.  The Company may be unable to complete
development and re-development projects on advantageous terms.  As part of our business, we develop new and re-develop
existing properties when and as conditions warrant. In addition, we have sold to third parties or sold to joint ventures development and re-development properties, and we may continue to sell such properties to third parties or to sell or contribute
such properties to joint ventures as opportunities arise. The real estate development and re-development business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock, which include:   


 
•
 
 we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in
increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow;   


 
•
 
 we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits
and authorizations;   


 
•
 
 the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts and limiting our ability to sell such properties to
third parties or to sell such properties to joint ventures. 
  9 


Table of Contents
The Company may be unable to acquire properties on advantageous terms or acquisitions
may not perform as the Company expects.  We acquire and intend to continue to acquire primarily industrial properties.
The acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that our investments may not perform as expected and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. Further, we face
significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including both publicly-traded REITs and private investors. This competition increases as investments in real estate become attractive
relative to other forms of investment. As a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties as we desire or the purchase price may be elevated. In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of
borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and debt originations by the Company and proceeds from property sales, which may not be available and which could adversely affect our cash flow. Any of the above
risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market value of, our common stock.  The Company may be unable to renew leases or find other lessees.  We
are subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases may not be renewed, the space subject to such leases may not be relet or the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than expiring lease
terms. If we were unable to promptly renew a significant number of expiring leases or to promptly relet the space covered by such leases, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting were significantly lower than the current rates, our financial
condition, results of operation, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, leases with respect to approximately 8.2 million, 11.3 million
and 8.5 million square feet of GLA, representing 15%, 20% and 15% of our total GLA, expire in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively.  The Company might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.  We
intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code. Although we believe that we are organized and will operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT, qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements, some of which
must be met on a recurring basis. These requirements are established under highly technical and complex Code provisions of which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involve the determination of various factual
matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.  If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we
would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at corporate rates. This could result in a discontinuation or substantial reduction in dividends to stockholders and in cash to pay
interest and principal on debt securities that we issue. Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we failed to
qualify as a REIT.  Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on
the gain attributable to the transaction.  As part of our business, we sell properties to third parties as
opportunities arise. Under the Code, a 100% penalty tax could be assessed on the gain resulting from sales of properties that are deemed to be prohibited transactions. The question of what constitutes a prohibited transaction is based on the facts
and circumstances surrounding each transaction. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could contend that certain sales of properties by us are prohibited transactions. While we do not believe that the IRS would prevail in such a dispute, if
the matter were successfully argued by the IRS, the 100% penalty tax could be assessed against the profits from these transactions. In addition, any income from a prohibited transaction may adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests
for qualification as a REIT. 
  10 


Table of Contents
The REIT distribution requirements may limit the Company’s ability to retain
capital and require the Company to turn to external financing sources.  We could, in certain instances, have taxable
income without sufficient cash to enable us to meet the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. In that situation, we could be required to borrow funds or sell properties on adverse terms in order to meet those distribution
requirements. In addition, because we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, our ability to accumulate capital may be limited. Thus, to provide capital resources for our ongoing business, and to
satisfy our debt repayment obligations and other liquidity needs, we may be more dependent on outside sources of financing, such as debt financing or issuances of additional capital stock, which may or may not be available on favorable terms.
Additional debt financings may substantially increase our leverage and additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders’ interests.  Debt financing, the degree of leverage and rising interest rates could reduce the Company’s cash flow.  Where possible, we intend to continue to use leverage to increase the rate of return on our investments and to allow us to make more investments than we otherwise could. Our use of leverage presents an
additional element of risk in the event that the cash flow from our properties is insufficient to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. In addition, rising interest rates would
reduce our cash flow by increasing the amount of interest due on our floating rate debt and on our fixed rate debt as it matures and is refinanced.  Failure to comply with covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition.  The terms of our agreements governing our Unsecured Credit Facility and other indebtedness require that we comply with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage
and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. Complying with such covenants may limit our operational flexibility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if we have
satisfied our payment obligations. Consistent with our prior practice, we will, in the future, continue to interpret and certify our performance under these covenants in a good faith manner that we deem reasonable and appropriate. However, these
financial covenants are complex and there can be no assurance that these provisions would not be interpreted by the noteholders or lenders in a manner that could impose and cause us to incur material costs. We anticipate that we will be able to
operate in compliance with our financial covenants in 2012. Our ability to meet our financial covenants may be adversely affected if economic and credit market conditions limit our ability to reduce our debt levels consistent with, or result in net
operating income below, our current expectations. Under our Unsecured Credit Facility, an event of default can also occur if the lenders, in their good faith judgment, determine that a material adverse change has occurred which could prevent timely
repayment or materially impair our ability to perform our obligations under the loan agreement.  Upon the occurrence of an
event of default, we would be subject to higher finance costs and fees, and the lenders under our Unsecured Credit Facility will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us. In addition, our outstanding senior unsecured notes as well as all
outstanding borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, could be accelerated and declared to be immediately due and payable. Furthermore, our Unsecured Credit Facility and the indentures
governing our senior unsecured notes contain certain cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness is in default. These cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure the Unsecured
Credit Facility and the senior unsecured notes or other debt that is in default, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. If repayment
of any of our borrowings is accelerated, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness or that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new
financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Cross-collateralization of mortgage loans could result in foreclosure on substantially
all of the Company’s properties if the Company is unable to service its indebtedness.  We may obtain additional
mortgage debt financing in the future, if it is available to us. These mortgages may be issued on a recourse, non-recourse or cross-collateralized basis. Cross-collateralization makes all of the subject properties available to the lender in order to
satisfy our debt. Holders of indebtedness that is so secured will have a claim against these properties. To the extent indebtedness is cross-collateralized, lenders may seek to foreclose upon properties that are not the primary collateral for their
loan, which may, in turn, result in acceleration of other indebtedness secured by properties. Foreclosure of properties would result in a loss of income and asset value to us, making it difficult for us to meet both debt payment obligations and the
distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. At December 31, 2011, mortgage loans payable totaling $390.2 million were cross-collateralized.  The Company may have to make lump-sum payments on its existing indebtedness.  We are required to make the following lump-sum or “balloon” payments under the terms of some of our indebtedness, including indebtedness of the Operating Partnership: 
 


 
•
 
 $35.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.750% Notes due 2032 (the “2032 Notes”) 
 


 
•
 
 $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.600% Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes”) 
 


 
•
 
 $6.1 million aggregate principal amount of 7.150% Notes due 2027 (the “2027 Notes”) 
 


 
•
 
 $106.9 million aggregate principal amount of 5.950% Notes due 2017 (the “2017 II Notes”) 
 


 
•
 
 $59.6 million aggregate principal amount of 7.500% Notes due 2017 (the “2017 Notes”) 
 


 
•
 
 $159.7 million aggregate principal amount of 5.750% Notes due 2016 (the “2016 Notes”) 
 


 
•
 
 $90.8 million aggregate principal amount of 6.420% Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”) 
 


 
•
 
 $61.8 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Notes due 2012 (the “2012 Notes”) 
 


 
•
 
 $601.5 million in mortgage loans payable, in the aggregate, due between January 2014 and October 2021 on certain of our mortgage loans payable.
  


 
•
 
 a $450.0 million Unsecured Credit Facility under which we may borrow to finance the acquisition of additional properties and for other corporate
purposes, including working capital.  As of December 31, 2011, $149.0 million was outstanding under the
Unsecured Credit Facility at a weighted average interest rate of 2.385%, maturing December 12, 2014.  Our ability to make
required payments of principal on outstanding indebtedness, whether at maturity or otherwise, may depend on our ability either to refinance the applicable indebtedness or to sell properties. We have no commitments to refinance the 2012 Notes, the
2014 Notes, the 2016 Notes, the 2017 Notes, the 2017 II Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 2028 Notes, the 2032 Notes, the Unsecured Credit Facility or the mortgage loans. Our existing mortgage loan obligations are collateralized by our properties and
therefore such obligations will permit the lender to foreclose on those properties in the event of a default.  There is
no limitation on debt in the Company’s organizational documents.  As of December 31, 2011, our ratio of debt
to our total market capitalization was 54.9%. We compute the percentage by calculating our total consolidated debt as a percentage of the aggregate market value of all outstanding shares of our common stock, assuming the exchange of all limited
partnership units of the Operating Partnership for common stock, plus the aggregate stated value of all outstanding shares of preferred stock and total consolidated debt. Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount or
percentage of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders and an increased risk of
default on our obligations. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Rising interest rates on the Company’s Unsecured Credit Facility could decrease
the Company’s available cash.  Our Unsecured Credit Facility bears interest at a floating rate. As of
December 31, 2011, our Unsecured Credit Facility had an outstanding balance of $149.0 million at a weighted average interest rate of 2.385%. Our Unsecured Credit Facility presently bears interest at LIBOR plus 210 basis points or at a base
rate plus 210 basis points, at our election. Based on the outstanding balance on our Unsecured Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011, a 10% increase in interest rates would increase interest expense by $0.4 million on an annual basis.
Increases in the interest rate payable on balances outstanding under our Unsecured Credit Facility would decrease our cash available for distribution to stockholders.  The Company’s mortgages may impact the Company’s ability to sell encumbered properties on advantageous terms or at all. 
As part of our plan to enhance liquidity and pay down our debt, we have originated numerous mortgage financings and from time to time
engage in active discussions with various lenders regarding the origination of additional mortgage financings. Certain of our mortgages contain, and it is anticipated that some future mortgages will contain, substantial prepayment premiums which we
would have to pay upon the sale of a property, thereby reducing the net proceeds to us from the sale of any such property. As a result, our willingness to sell certain properties and the price at which we may desire to sell a property may be
impacted by the terms of any mortgage financing encumbering a property. If we are unable to sell properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property sales in accordance with our business strategy, then our financial condition, results
of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected.  Adverse market and economic conditions could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges.  We regularly review our real estate assets for impairment indicators, such as a decline in a property’s occupancy rate or decline in general market conditions. If we determine that indicators of
impairment are present, we review the properties affected by these indicators to determine whether an impairment charge is required. We use considerable judgment in making determinations about impairments, from analyzing whether there are indicators
of impairment to the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the investment. Accordingly, our subjective estimates and evaluations may not be accurate, and such estimates and evaluations are subject to change or revision. 
From time to time, adverse market and economic conditions and market volatility make it difficult to value the real estate assets owned
by us as well as the value of our interests in unconsolidated joint ventures. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the cash flows, discount rates and other factors related to such assets due to the adverse
market and economic conditions that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. We may be required to recognize additional asset impairment charges in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results of operations.  Earnings and cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the
price of the Company’s common stock.  As a REIT, the market value of our common stock, in general, is based
primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. The market value of our common stock is also based upon the market value of our underlying real estate assets. For
this reason, shares of our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these
retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely
would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, the distribution yield on the common stock (as a percentage of the price of the common stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of our common stock.
An increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 
  13 


Table of Contents
The Company may incur unanticipated costs and liabilities due to environmental
problems.  Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate
may be liable for the costs of clean-up of certain conditions relating to the presence of hazardous or toxic materials on, in or emanating from a property, and any related damages to natural resources. Environmental laws often impose liability
without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic materials. The presence of such materials, or the failure to address those conditions properly, may adversely affect the ability to
rent or sell the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Persons who dispose of or arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic materials may also be liable for the costs of clean-up of such materials, or for related
natural resource damages, at or from an off-site disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by those persons. No assurance can be given that existing environmental assessments with respect to any of our
properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of any of the properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to us or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to
any of our properties. In addition, changes to existing environmental regulation to address, among other things, climate change, could increase the scope of our potential liabilities. 
The Company’s insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. 
We currently carry comprehensive insurance coverage including property, boiler & machinery, liability, fire, flood, terrorism,
earthquake, extended coverage and rental loss as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and their business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for
similar properties and business activities. We believe our properties are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses, including losses from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, pollution, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not
generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed to be economically feasible or prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our
properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenues from these properties, and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. 
The Company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with its investments in properties through Joint Ventures.
 As of December 31, 2011, the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture owned approximately 3.4 million square feet of
properties (see Subsequent Events). Our net investment in this Joint Venture was $1.7 million at December 31, 2011. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in joint ventures and we intend to
continue to develop and acquire properties through joint ventures with other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances. Joint venture investments, in general, involve certain risks, including: 
 


 
•
 
 joint venturers may share certain approval rights over major decisions; 
 


 
•
 
 joint venturers might fail to fund their share of any required capital commitments; 
 


 
•
 
 joint venturers might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect
our ability to operate the property;   


 
•
 
 joint venturers may have the power to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to
maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust;   


 
•
 
 the joint venture agreements often restrict the transfer of a member’s or joint venturer’s interest or “buy-sell” or may otherwise
restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms;   


 
•
 
 disputes between us and our joint venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and
directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and subject the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and 
  14 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our joint venturers. 
The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash
flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock.  In addition, joint venture investments in
real estate involve all of the risks related to the ownership, acquisition, development, sale and financing of real estate discussed in the risk factors above. To the extent our investments in joint ventures are adversely affected by such risks our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected.  We are subject to risks associated with our international operations. 
As of December 31, 2011, we owned one industrial property and one land parcel located in Canada. Our international operations will be
subject to risks inherent in doing business abroad, including:   


 
•
 
 exposure to the economic fluctuations in the locations in which we invest; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; 
 


 
•
 
 revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international revenues;
  


 
•
 
 obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and funds;   


 
•
 
 currency exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and foreign currencies; 
 


 
•
 
 restrictions on the transfer of funds; and   


 
•
 
 national, regional and local political uncertainty.  When we acquire properties located outside of the United States, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in
the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. We work to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks
will be eliminated.  Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our liquidity and business
operations.  The credit ratings of the Operating Partnership’s senior unsecured notes and the Company’s
preferred stock are based on the Company’s operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses. Our credit ratings can affect the
availability, terms and pricing of any indebtedness and preferred stock that we may incur going forward. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain any credit rating, and in the event any credit rating is downgraded, we could incur
higher borrowing costs or be unable to access certain capital markets at all.   


Item 1B.
Unresolved SEC Comments  None.   


Item 2.
Properties  General
 At December 31, 2011, we owned 739 in-service industrial properties containing an aggregate of approximately
66.3 million square feet of GLA in 26 states and one province in Canada, with a diverse base of approximately 1,900 tenants engaged in a wide variety of businesses, including manufacturing, retail, wholesale

  15 


Table of Contents

trade, distribution and professional services. The average annual rent per square foot on a portfolio basis, calculated at December 31, 2011, was $4.40. The properties are generally located
in business parks that have convenient access to interstate highways and/or rail and air transportation. We maintain insurance on our properties that we believe is adequate.  We classify our properties into five industrial categories: light industrial, R&D/flex, bulk warehouse, regional warehouse and manufacturing. While some properties may have characteristics which fall
under more than one property type, we use what we believe is the most dominant characteristic to categorize the property.  The
following describes, generally, the different industrial categories:   


 
•
 
 Light industrial properties are of less than 100,000 square feet, have a ceiling height of 16-21 feet, are comprised of 5%-50% of office
space and contain less than 50% of manufacturing space.   


 
•
 
 R&D/flex buildings are of less than 100,000 square feet, have a ceiling height of less than 16 feet, are comprised of 50% or more of
office space and contain less than 25% of manufacturing space.   


 
•
 
 Bulk warehouse buildings are of more than 100,000 square feet, have a ceiling height of at least 22 feet, are comprised of 5%-15% of office
space and contain less than 25% of manufacturing space.   


 
•
 
 Regional warehouses are of less than 100,000 square feet, have a ceiling height of at least 22 feet, are comprised of 5%-15% of office space
and contain less than 25% of manufacturing space.   


 
•
 
 Manufacturing properties are a diverse category of buildings that have various ceiling heights, are comprised of 5%-15% of office space and contain at
least 50% of manufacturing space.  Each of the properties is wholly owned by us. The following tables
summarize certain information as of December 31, 2011, with respect to our in-service properties. 
  16 


Table of Contents
In-Service Property Summary Totals 
 













































 
 
Light Industrial
  
 
 
R&D/Flex
  
 
 
Bulk Warehouse
  
 
  
RegionalWarehouse
    
 
 
Manufacturing
  

 Metropolitan Area
 
GLA
 
 
Number 
ofProperties
 
 
GLA
 
 
Number 
ofProperties
 
 
GLA
 
 
Number 
ofProperties
 
 
GLA
 
 
Number 
ofProperties
 
 
GLA
 
 
Number 
ofProperties
 

 Atlanta, GA
 
 
622,944
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
203,750
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
3,820,667
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
649,807
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
364,000
  
 
 
1
  

 Baltimore, MD
 
 
721,565
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
253,071
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
586,647
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
96,000
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
171,000
  
 
 
1
  

 Central PA
 
 
297,790
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,723,585
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
381,719
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Chicago, IL
 
 
975,829
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
248,090
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
2,198,942
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
593,851
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
166,954
  
 
 
1
  

 Cincinnati, OH
 
 
347,220
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
100,000
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
918,250
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
763,069
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cleveland, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,317,799
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Columbus, OH
 
 
217,612
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,423,547
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
341,800
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Dallas, TX
 
 
2,307,047
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
511,418
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
2,248,380
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
460,533
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Denver, CO
 
 
1,148,368
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
577,054
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
400,498
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
760,277
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Detroit, MI
 
 
2.216,102
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
322,010
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
385,577
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
615,259
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
414,482
  
 
 
4
  

 Houston, TX
 
 
585,349
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
132,997
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
2,457,546
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
446,318
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Indianapolis, IN
 
 
861,100
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
25,000
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
2,327,482
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
539,927
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Miami, FL
 
 
88,820
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
424,430
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Milwaukee, WI
 
 
431,508
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
55,940
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,726,929
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
90,089
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Minneapolis/ St.
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Paul, MN
 
 
973,459
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
265,565
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
2,817,128
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
323,165
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Nashville, TN
 
 
163,852
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,824,831
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Northern New Jersey
 
 
749,849
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
199,967
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
329,593
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Philadelphia, PA
 
 
186,641
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
11,256
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
690,599
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
330,334
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Phoenix, AZ
 
 
38,560
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
710,403
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
354,327
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Salt Lake City, UT
 
 
697,825
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
146,937
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
279,179
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Seattle, WA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
258,126
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
132,195
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Southern California
 
 
734,010
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
88,064
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,023,893
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
676,980
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Southern New Jersey
 
 
115,626
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
45,054
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
281,100
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
191,329
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 St. Louis, MO
 
 
823,655
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,613,095
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Tampa, FL
 
 
234,679
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
689,782
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
209,500
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Toronto, ON
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
280,773
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other(a)
 
 
201,997
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,150,755
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
88,498
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
301,317
  
 
 
1
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
15,741,407
  
 
 
354
  
 
 
3,875,955
  
 
 
113
  
 
 
37,004,824
  
 
 
159
  
 
 
8,259,907
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
1,417,753
  
 
 
8
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
Properties are located in Grand Rapids, MI, Austin, TX, Orlando, FL, Horn Lake, MS, Kansas City, MO, San Antonio, TX, Birmingham, AL, Omaha, NE, Jefferson County,
KY, Greenville, KY, Des Moines, IA, Fort Smith, AR, and Winchester, VA. 
  17 


Table of Contents
In-Service Property Summary Totals 
 
























  
  
Totals
 

 Metropolitan Area
  
GLA
 
  
Number 
ofProperties
 
  
AverageOccupancyat 
12/31/11
 
 
GLA asa %of TotalPortfolio
 
 
Encumbrancesat 12/31/11($ in 000s)(b)
 

 Atlanta, GA
  
 
5,661,168
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
76
% 
 
 
8.5
% 
 
$
35,517
  

 Baltimore, MD
  
 
1,828,283
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
83
% 
 
 
2.8
% 
 
 
7,745
  

 Central PA
  
 
4,403,094
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
91
% 
 
 
6.6
% 
 
 
59,907
  

 Chicago, IL
  
 
4,183,666
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
96
% 
 
 
6.3
% 
 
 
39,080
  

 Cincinnati, OH
  
 
2,128,539
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
79
% 
 
 
3.2
% 
 
 
10,312
  

 Cleveland, OH
  
 
1,317,799
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
97
% 
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
34,409
  

 Columbus, OH
  
 
2,982,959
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
82
% 
 
 
4.5
% 
 
 
—  
  

 Dallas, TX
  
 
5,527,378
  
  
 
84
  
  
 
85
% 
 
 
8.3
% 
 
 
45,286
  

 Denver, CO
  
 
2,886,197
  
  
 
50
  
  
 
84
% 
 
 
4.3
% 
 
 
33,830
  

 Detroit, MI
  
 
3,953,430
  
  
 
114
  
  
 
92
% 
 
 
6.0
% 
 
 
—  
  

 Houston, TX
  
 
3,622,210
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
96
% 
 
 
5.5
% 
 
 
54,224
  

 Indianapolis, IN
  
 
3,753,509
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
93
% 
 
 
5.7
% 
 
 
9,763
  

 Miami, FL
  
 
513,250
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
50
% 
 
 
0.8
% 
 
 
—  
  

 Milwaukee, WI
  
 
2,304,466
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
87
% 
 
 
3.5
% 
 
 
37,763
  

 Minneapolis/St. Paul, MN
  
 
4,379,317
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
81
% 
 
 
6.6
% 
 
 
60,610
  

 Nashville, TN
  
 
1,988,683
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
87
% 
 
 
3.0
% 
 
 
28,278
  

 Northern New Jersey
  
 
1,279,409
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
89
% 
 
 
1.9
% 
 
 
25,185
  

 Philadelphia, PA
  
 
1,218,830
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
98
% 
 
 
1.8
% 
 
 
26,551
  

 Phoenix, AZ
  
 
1,103,290
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
93
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
14,122
  

 Salt Lake City, UT
  
 
1,123,941
  
  
 
41
  
  
 
86
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
10,562
  

 Seattle, WA
  
 
390,321
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
80
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
5,744
  

 Southern California
  
 
2,522,947
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
93
% 
 
 
3.8
% 
 
 
67,441
  

 Southern New Jersey
  
 
633,109
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
95
% 
 
 
1.0
% 
 
 
5,821
  

 St. Louis, MO
  
 
2,436,750
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
98
% 
 
 
3.7
% 
 
 
37,242
  

 Tampa, FL
  
 
1,133,961
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
82
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
9,622
  

 Toronto, ON
  
 
280,773
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
100
% 
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
—  
  

 Other(a)
  
 
2,742,567
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
98
% 
 
 
4.1
% 
 
 
30,881
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total or Average
  
 
66,299,846
  
  
 
739
  
  
 
88
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
$
689,895
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
Properties are located in Grand Rapids, MI, Austin, TX, Orlando, FL, Horn Lake, MS, Kansas City, MO, San Antonio, TX, Birmingham, AL, Omaha, NE, Jefferson County,
KY, Greenville, KY, Des Moines, IA, Fort Smith, AR, and Winchester, VA. 


(b)
Certain properties are pledged as collateral under our mortgage financings at December 31, 2011. For purposes of this table, the total principal balance of a
mortgage loan payable that is collateralized by a pool of properties is allocated among the properties in the pool based on each property’s carrying balance. In addition to the amounts included in the table, we also have $0.4 million of
indebtedness which is collateralized by a letter of credit. 
  18 


Table of Contents
Property Acquisition/Development Activity 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we acquired one industrial property with a fair value of approximately $30.6 million in
connection with the purchase of the 85% equity interest in one property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture. The acquisition was funded with a cash payment of $5.3 million and the assumption of a mortgage loan in the
amount of $24.4 million. The acquired industrial property has the following characteristics:   


















 Metropolitan Area
  
Number 
ofProperties
 
  
GLA
 
  
PropertyType
  
Occupancyat 12/31/11
 

 Houston, TX
  
 
1
  
  
 
663,821
  
  
BulkWarehouse
  
 
100
% 
 At December 31, 2011 we have one building comprising 0.7 million square feet of GLA located in
the Inland Empire market that is under development. The estimated completion cost, inclusive of impairment charges recorded prior to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, is approximately $34.7 million. There can be no assurance that the actual
completion cost will not exceed the estimated completion cost.  Property Sales 
During 2011, we sold 36 industrial properties totaling approximately 2.9 million square feet of GLA and one land parcel. Total gross
sales proceeds approximated $86.6 million. The 36 industrial properties sold have the following characteristics:   














 Metropolitan Area
  
Number 
ofProperties
 
  
GLA
 
  
 Property Type

 Chicago, IL
  
 
3
  
  
 
397,420
  
  
Lt. Industrial/Bulk Warehouse

 Dallas, TX
  
 
1
  
  
 
61,260
  
  
Light Industrial

 Denver, CO
  
 
5
  
  
 
189,663
  
  
Lt. Industrial/R&D/Flex

 Detroit, MI
  
 
11
  
  
 
430,317
  
  
Lt. Industrial/R&D/Flex/ Bulk/Regional Warehouse

 Milwaukee, WI
  
 
1
  
  
 
37,765
  
  
R&D/Flex

 Nashville, TN
  
 
1
  
  
 
41,353
  
  
Light Industrial

 Philadelphia, PA
  
 
1
  
  
 
14,187
  
  
Light Industrial

 Southern California
  
 
1
  
  
 
384,025
  
  
Bulk Warehouse

 Southern New Jersey
  
 
2
  
  
 
434,538
  
  
R&D Flex/Manufacturing

 Toronto, ON
  
 
2
  
  
 
336,540
  
  
Manufacturing

 Other(a)
  
 
8
  
  
 
589,049
  
  
R&D/Flex/Bulk/Regional Warehouse/Manufacturing


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 Total
  
 
36
  
  
 
2,916,117
  
  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

  


(a)
Properties were located in Wichita, KS, Horn Lake, MS, Grand Rapids, MI, Sumner, IA, Shreveport, LA and Abilene, TX. 
Property Acquisitions and Sales Subsequent to Year End  From January 1, 2012 to February 28, 2012, we acquired one industrial property comprising approximately 0.4 million square feet of GLA in connection with the purchase of the 85% equity interest in one
property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture. The acquisition was funded through the assumption of a mortgage loan in the amount of $12.0 million, which was subsequently paid off at closing and a cash payment of $8.3
million. We will account for this transaction as a step acquisition utilizing the purchase method of accounting. There were no industrial properties sold during this time. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Tenant and Lease Information  We have a diverse base of approximately 1,900 tenants engaged in a wide variety of businesses including manufacturing, retail, wholesale trade, distribution and professional services. At December 31,
2011, our leases have a weighted average lease length of 5.8 years and provide for periodic rent increases that are either fixed or based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. Industrial tenants typically have net or semi-net leases and pay as
additional rent their percentage of the property’s operating costs, including the costs of common area maintenance, property taxes and insurance. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 88% of the GLA of our in-service properties was
leased, and no single tenant or group of related tenants accounted for more than 2.7% of our rent revenues, nor did any single tenant or group of related tenants occupy more than 2.0% of the total GLA of our in-service properties. 
Lease Expirations (1)  The following table shows scheduled lease expirations for all leases for our in-service properties as of December 31, 2011. 
 
























 Year of Expiration(1)
  
Number ofLeasesExpiring
 
  
GLAExpiring(2)
 
  
Percentageof GLAExpiring(2)
 
 
Annual
BaseRentUnderExpiringLeases(3)
 
  
Percentageof
TotalAnnualBase RentExpiring(3)
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
(In thousands)
 
  
 
 

 2012
  
 
475
  
  
 
8,230,670
  
  
 
15
% 
 
$
37,998
  
  
 
15
% 

 2013
  
 
473
  
  
 
11,263,999
  
  
 
20
% 
 
 
50,950
  
  
 
20
% 

 2014
  
 
332
  
  
 
8,540,810
  
  
 
15
% 
 
 
39,098
  
  
 
16
% 

 2015
  
 
233
  
  
 
6,150,997
  
  
 
11
% 
 
 
27,247
  
  
 
11
% 

 2016
  
 
203
  
  
 
7,020,163
  
  
 
12
% 
 
 
28,063
  
  
 
11
% 

 2017
  
 
98
  
  
 
3,918,362
  
  
 
7
% 
 
 
17,918
  
  
 
7
% 

 2018
  
 
50
  
  
 
3,914,906
  
  
 
7
% 
 
 
15,499
  
  
 
6
% 

 2019
  
 
26
  
  
 
1,801,912
  
  
 
3
% 
 
 
9,178
  
  
 
4
% 

 2020
  
 
17
  
  
 
2,135,104
  
  
 
4
% 
 
 
7,831
  
  
 
3
% 

 2021
  
 
19
  
  
 
1,764,236
  
  
 
3
% 
 
 
6,892
  
  
 
3
% 

 Thereafter
  
 
21
  
  
 
1,845,534
  
  
 
3
% 
 
 
8,402
  
  
 
4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,947
  
  
 
56,586,693
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
249,076
  
  
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Includes leases that expire on or after January 1, 2012 and assumes tenants do not exercise existing renewal, termination or purchase options.



(2)
Does not include existing vacancies of 9,713,153 aggregate square feet. 


(3)
Annualized base rent is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the terms of the lease, as of December 31, 2011, multiplied by 12. If free rent is
granted, then the first positive rent value is used.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  We are involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. All such proceedings, taken together, are not expected to have a material impact on the results of operations, financial
position or liquidity of the Company.   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  None. 
  20 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Market Information  The
following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low closing prices per share and distributions declared per share for our common stock, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol “FR.”
  
















 Quarter Ended
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
DistributionDeclared
 

 December 31, 2011
  
$
10.23
  
  
$
7.54
  
  
$
0.0000
  

 September 30, 2011
  
$
12.23
  
  
$
7.81
  
  
$
0.0000
  

 June 30, 2011
  
$
12.67
  
  
$
10.51
  
  
$
0.0000
  

 March 31, 2011
  
$
11.89
  
  
$
9.45
  
  
$
0.0000
  

 December 31, 2010
  
$
8.78
  
  
$
4.99
  
  
$
0.0000
  

 September 30, 2010
  
$
5.37
  
  
$
3.76
  
  
$
0.0000
  

 June 30, 2010
  
$
9.01
  
  
$
4.82
  
  
$
0.0000
  

 March 31, 2010
  
$
8.29
  
  
$
4.77
  
  
$
0.0000
  
 We had 559 common stockholders of record registered with our transfer agent as of February 28, 2012.
 In order to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code, we are generally required to make common share distributions and
preferred share distributions (other than capital gain distributions) to our shareholders in amounts that together at least equal i) the sum of a) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” computed without regard to the dividends paid
deduction and net capital gains and b) 90% of net income (after tax), if any, from foreclosure property, minus ii) certain excess non-cash income.  Our common share distribution policy is determined by our board of directors and is dependent on multiple factors, including cash flow and capital expenditure requirements, as well as ensuring that we
meet the minimum distribution requirements set forth in the Code. We met the minimum distribution requirements with respect to 2011.  During 2011, the Operating Partnership did not issue any units of limited partnership interest (“Units”).  Subject to lock-up periods and certain adjustments, Units of the Operating Partnership are redeemable for common stock of the Company on a one-for-one basis or cash at the option of the Company.
 Equity Compensation Plans  The following table sets forth information regarding our equity compensation plans.   
















 Plan Category
  
Number ofSecuritiesto be
IssuedUponExercise
ofOutstandingOptions,Warrantsand Rights
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
ofOutstandingOptions,Warrantsand Rights
 
  
Number
ofSecuritiesRemainingAvailablefor FurtherIssuanceUnder EquityCompensationPlans
 

 Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,621,617
  

 Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders
  
 
25,201
  
  
$
31.57
  
  
 
277,573
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
25,201
  
  
$
31.57
  
  
 
1,899,190
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  21 


Table of Contents
Performance Graph 
The following graph provides a comparison of the cumulative total stockholder return among the Company, the FTSE NAREIT Equity REIT Total
Return Index (the “NAREIT Index”) and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (“S&P 500”). The comparison is for the periods from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011 and assumes the reinvestment of any
dividends. The closing price for our common stock quoted on the NYSE at the close of business on December 31, 2006 was $46.89 per share. The NAREIT Index includes REITs with 75% or more of their gross invested book value of assets invested
directly or indirectly in the equity ownership of real estate. Upon written request, we will provide stockholders with a list of the REITs included in the NAREIT Index. The historical information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of
future performance. The following graph was prepared at our request by Research Data Group, Inc., San Francisco, California.  COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*  Among First Industrial
Realty Trust, Inc., The S&P 500 Index  And The FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index 
  

  


*
$100 invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 
Fiscal year ending December 31.  Copyright(C) 2012 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.   




























 
  
12/06
 
  
12/07
 
  
12/08
 
  
12/09
 
  
12/10
 
  
12/11
 

 FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC.
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
79.27
  
  
$
19.26
  
  
$
13.34
  
  
$
22.35
  
  
$
26.10
  

 S&P 500
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
105.49
  
  
 
66.46
  
  
 
84.05
  
  
 
96.71
  
  
 
98.75
  

 FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
84.31
  
  
 
52.50
  
  
 
67.20
  
  
 
85.98
  
  
 
93.11
  
  


*
The information provided in this performance graph shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material,” to be “filed” or to be incorporated by reference
into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 unless specifically treated as such. 
  22 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data  The following sets forth selected financial and operating data for the Company on a historical consolidated basis. The following data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes thereto and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The historical statements of operations for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 include the results of operations of the Company as derived from our audited financial statements, adjusted for discontinued operations. The results of operations of properties sold are presented in discontinued
operations if they met both of the following criteria: (a) the operations and cash flows of the property have been (or will be) eliminated from the ongoing operations of the Company as a result of the disposition and (b) we will not have
any significant involvement in the operations of the property after the disposal transaction. The historical balance sheet data and other data as of December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 include the balances of the Company as derived
from our audited financial statements.   
























 
 
Year Ended12/31/11
 
 
Year Ended12/31/10
 
 
Year Ended12/31/09
 
 
Year Ended12/31/08
 
 
Year Ended12/31/07
 

 
 
(In thousands, except per share and property data)
 

 Statement of Operations Data:
 



 



 



 



 




 Total Revenues
 
$
317,835
  
 
$
321,778
  
 
$
384,572
  
 
$
480,442
  
 
$
338,116
  

 Loss from Continuing Operations
 
 
(32,201
) 
 
 
(155,699
) 
 
 
(20,327
) 
 
 
(148,526
) 
 
 
(84,983
) 

 Loss from Continuing Operations Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc’s Common Stockholders and Participating
Securities
 
 
(47,751
) 
 
 
(161,236
) 
 
 
(35,593
) 
 
 
(140,040
) 
 
 
(89,068
) 

 Net (Loss) Income Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders and Participating
Securities
 
$
(27,010
) 
 
$
(222,498
) 
 
$
(13,783
) 
 
$
20,169
  
 
$
130,368
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Weighted Average Common Share Outstanding:
 



 



 



 



 




 Loss from Continuing Operations Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders
 
$
(0.59
) 
 
$
(2.56
) 
 
$
(0.73
) 
 
$
(3.24
) 
 
$
(2.02
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (Loss) Income Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders
 
$
(0.34
) 
 
$
(3.53
) 
 
$
(0.28
) 
 
$
0.41
  
 
$
2.90
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Distributions Per Share
 
$
0.00
  
 
$
0.00
  
 
$
0.00
  
 
$
2.41
  
 
$
2.85
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and Diluted Weighted Average Number of Common Shares Outstanding
 
 
80,616
  
 
 
62,953
  
 
 
48,695
  
 
 
43,193
  
 
 
44,086
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance Sheet Data (End of Period):
 



 



 



 



 




 Real Estate, Before Accumulated Depreciation
 
$
2,992,096
  
 
$
2,618,767
  
 
$
3,319,764
  
 
$
3,385,597
  
 
$
3,326,268
  

 Total Assets
 
 
2,666,657
  
 
 
2,750,054
  
 
 
3,204,586
  
 
 
3,223,501
  
 
 
3,257,888
  

 Indebtedness (Inclusive of Indebtedness Held for Sale)
 
 
1,479,483
  
 
 
1,742,776
  
 
 
1,998,332
  
 
 
2,032,635
  
 
 
1,940,747
  

 Total Equity
 
 
1,072,595
  
 
 
892,144
  
 
 
1,074,247
  
 
 
990,716
  
 
 
1,080,056
  

 Other Data:
 



 



 



 



 




 Cash Flow From Operating Activities
 
$
87,534
  
 
$
83,189
  
 
$
142,179
  
 
$
71,185
  
 
$
92,989
  

 Cash Flow From Investing Activities
 
 
(3,779
) 
 
 
(9,923
) 
 
 
4,777
  
 
 
6,274
  
 
 
126,909
  

 Cash Flow From Financing Activities
 
 
(99,504
) 
 
 
(230,383
) 
 
 
32,724
  
 
 
(79,754
) 
 
 
(230,276
) 

  23 


Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with “Selected Financial Data” and the Consolidated Financial Statements
and Notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  In addition, the following discussion contains certain
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking
statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are including this statement for purposes of complying with those safe harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and
describe future plans, strategies and expectations of the Company, are generally identifiable by use of the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,”
“seek,” “target,” “potential,” “focus,” “may,” “should” or similar expressions. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain.
Factors which could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and future prospects include, but are not limited to: changes in national, international, regional and local economic conditions generally and real estate markets specifically;
changes in legislation/regulation (including changes to laws governing the taxation of REITs) and actions of regulatory authorities (including the IRS); our ability to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT; the availability and attractiveness of
financing (including both public and private capital) to us and to our potential counterparties; the availability and attractiveness of terms of additional debt repurchases; interest rates; our credit agency ratings; our ability to comply with
applicable financial covenants; competition; changes in supply and demand for industrial properties (including land, the supply and demand for which is inherently more volatile than other types of industrial property) in the Company’s current
and proposed market areas; difficulties in consummating acquisitions and dispositions; risks related to our investments in properties through joint ventures; environmental liabilities; slippages in development or lease-up schedules; tenant
creditworthiness; higher-than-expected costs; changes in asset valuations and related impairment charges; changes in general accounting principles, policies and guidelines applicable to real estate investment trusts; international business risks and
those additional factors described under the heading “Risk Factors” and in our other filings with the SEC. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the
date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements.  The Company was organized in the state of Maryland on August 10, 1993. We are a REIT, as defined in the Code. We began operations on July 1, 1994. Our interests in our properties and land
parcels are held through partnerships, corporations, and limited liability companies controlled, directly or indirectly, by us, including First Industrial, L.P. (the “Operating Partnership”), of which we are the sole general partner, and
through our taxable REIT subsidiaries. We also conduct operations through other partnerships and limited liability companies, the operating data of which, together with that of the Operating Partnership and the taxable REIT subsidiaries, is
consolidated with that of the Company, as presented herein.  We also own noncontrolling equity interests in, and provide
services to, two joint ventures (the “2003 Net Lease Joint Venture” and the “2007 Europe Joint Venture”). During 2010, we provided various services to, and ultimately disposed of our equity interests in, five joint ventures (the
“2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture,” the “2005 Core Joint Venture,” the “2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program,” the “2006 Land/Development Joint Venture” and the “2007 Canada Joint
Venture;” together with the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture and the 2007 Europe Joint Venture, the “Joint Ventures”). The Joint Ventures are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the operating data of our
Joint Ventures is not consolidated with that of the Company as presented herein. The 2007 Europe Joint Venture does not own any properties. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Joint Ventures.
 We believe our financial condition and results of operations are, primarily, a function of our performance in four key areas:
leasing of industrial properties, acquisition and development of additional industrial properties, disposition of industrial properties and access to external capital. 
  24 


Table of Contents
We generate revenue primarily from rental income and tenant recoveries from long-term
(generally three to six years) operating leases of our industrial properties. Such revenue is offset by certain property specific operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management, utilities and insurance
expenses, along with certain other costs and expenses, such as depreciation and amortization costs and general and administrative and interest expenses. Our revenue growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income,
through increasing either or both occupancy rates and rental rates at our properties, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) minimize operating and certain other expenses. Revenues generated from rental income and tenant recoveries are
a significant source of funds, in addition to income generated from gains/losses on the sale of our properties (as discussed below), for our liquidity. The leasing of property, in general, and occupancy rates, rental rates, operating expenses and
certain non-operating expenses, in particular, are impacted, variously, by property specific, market specific, general economic and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The leasing of property also entails various risks, including
the risk of tenant default. If we were unable to maintain or increase occupancy rates and rental rates at our properties or to maintain tenant recoveries and operating and certain other expenses consistent with historical levels and proportions, our
revenue would decline. Further, if a significant number of our tenants were unable to pay rent (including tenant recoveries) or if we were unable to rent our properties on favorable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow
and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock would be adversely affected.  Our revenue growth is
also dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire existing, and acquire and develop new, additional industrial properties on favorable terms. The Company seeks to identify opportunities to acquire existing industrial properties on favorable terms,
and, when conditions permit, also seeks to identify opportunities to acquire and develop new industrial properties on favorable terms. Existing properties, as they are acquired, and acquired and developed properties, as they are leased, generate
revenue from rental income, tenant recoveries and fees, income from which, as discussed above, is a source of funds for our distributions. The acquisition and development of properties is impacted, variously, by property specific, market specific,
general economic and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The acquisition and development of properties also entails various risks, including the risk that our investments may not perform as expected. For example, acquired
existing and acquired and developed new properties may not sustain and/or achieve anticipated occupancy and rental rate levels. With respect to acquired and developed new properties, we may not be able to complete construction on schedule or within
budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties. Also, we face significant competition for attractive acquisition and development opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate
investors, including both publicly-traded REITs and private investors. Further, as discussed below, we may not be able to finance the acquisition and development opportunities we identify. If we were unable to acquire and develop sufficient
additional properties on favorable terms, or if such investments did not perform as expected, our revenue growth would be limited and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of,
our common stock would be adversely affected.  We also generate income from the sale of our properties (including existing
buildings, buildings which we have developed or re-developed on a merchant basis and land). The gain/loss on, and fees from, the sale of such properties are included in our income and can be a significant source of funds, in addition to revenues
generated from rental income and tenant recoveries, for our operations. Currently, a significant portion of our proceeds from sales are being used to repay outstanding debt. Market conditions permitting, however, a significant portion of our
proceeds from such sales may be used to fund the acquisition of existing, and the acquisition and development of new, industrial properties. The sale of properties is impacted, variously, by property specific, market specific, general economic and
other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The sale of properties also entails various risks, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our properties. Further, our
ability to sell properties is limited by safe harbor rules applying to REITs under the Code which relate to the number of properties that may be disposed of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements made to the properties, along with
other tests which enable a REIT to avoid punitive taxation on the sale of assets. If we are unable to sell properties on favorable terms, our income growth would be limited and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to
pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected. 
  25 


Table of Contents
We utilize a portion of the net sales proceeds from property sales, borrowings under our
Unsecured Credit Facility, and proceeds from the issuance, when and as warranted, of additional debt and equity securities to refinance debt and finance future acquisitions and developments. Access to external capital on favorable terms plays a key
role in our financial condition and results of operations, as it impacts our cost of capital and our ability and cost to refinance existing indebtedness as it matures and to fund acquisitions and developments or through the issuance, when and as
warranted, of additional equity securities. Our ability to access external capital on favorable terms is dependent on various factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our preferred stock and debt, the
market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our capital stock. If we are unable to access external capital on favorable terms, our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected. 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies relate to the more
significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.   


 
•
 
 We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts which is based on estimates of potential losses which could result from the inability of our tenants to
satisfy outstanding billings with us. The allowance for doubtful accounts is an estimate based on our assessment of the creditworthiness of our tenants. 
 


 
•
 
 We review our held-for-use properties on a continuous basis for possible impairment and provide a provision if impairments are determined. We utilize
the guidelines established under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (the “FASB”) guidance for accounting for the impairment of long lived assets to determine if impairment conditions exist. We review the expected undiscounted
cash flows of the property to determine if there are any indications of impairment. If the expected undiscounted cash flows of a particular property are less than the net book basis of the property, we will recognize an impairment charge equal to
the amount of carrying value of the property that exceeds the fair value of the property. Fair value is determined by discounting the future expected cash flows of the property. The preparation of the undiscounted cash flows and the calculation of
fair value involve subjective assumptions such as estimated occupancy, rental rates, ultimate residual value and hold period. The discount rate used to present value the cash flows for determining fair value is also subjective.
  


 
•
 
 Properties are classified as held for sale when all criteria within the FASB’s guidance relating to the disposal of long lived assets are met for
such properties. When properties are classified as held for sale, we cease depreciating the properties and estimate the values of such properties and record them at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value, less costs to dispose. If circumstances
arise that were previously considered unlikely, and, as a result, we decide not to sell a property previously classified as held for sale, we will reclassify such property as held and used. We estimate the value of such property and measure it at
the lower of its carrying amount (adjusted for any depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recognized had the property been continuously classified as held and used) or fair value at the date of the subsequent decision not to
sell. Fair value of operational industrial properties is determined either by discounting the future expected cash flows of the property or by third party contract prices. The preparation of the discounted cash flows and the calculation of fair
value involve subjective assumptions such as estimated occupancy, rental rates, ultimate residual value, hold period and discount rate. Fair value of land is primarily determined by members of management who are responsible for the individual
markets where the land parcels are located, quotes from local brokers or by third party contract prices. The determination of the fair value of real estate assets is also highly subjective, especially in markets where there is a lack of recent
comparable transactions.   


 
•
 
 We analyze our investments in Joint Ventures to determine whether the joint ventures should be accounted for under the equity method of accounting or
consolidated into our financial statements based on standards set forth under the FASB’s guidance relating to the consolidation of variable interest entities. Based on the guidance set forth in these pronouncements, we do not consolidate any of

  26 


Table of Contents


 
 
our joint venture investments because either the joint venture has been determined to be a variable interest entity but we are not the primary beneficiary or the joint venture has been determined
not to be a variable interest entity and we lack control of the joint venture. Our assessment of whether we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity involves the consideration of various factors including the form of our ownership
interest, our representation on the entity’s governing body, the size of our investment and future cash flows of the entity.   


 
•
 
 On a continuous basis, we assess whether there are any indicators that the value of our investments in Joint Ventures may be impaired. An investment is
impaired if our estimate of the value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment, and such decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the
excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of the investment. Our estimates of fair value for each investment are based on a number of subjective assumptions that are subject to economic and market uncertainties including,
among others, demand for space, market rental rates and operating costs, the discount rate used to value the cash flows of the properties, the cap rate used to estimate the terminal value of the underlying properties and the discount rate used to
value the Joint Ventures’ debt.   


 
•
 
 We capitalize (direct and certain indirect) costs incurred in developing, renovating, acquiring and rehabilitating real estate assets as part of the
investment basis. During the land development and construction periods, we capitalize interest costs, real estate taxes and certain general and administrative costs of the personnel performing development, renovations or rehabilitation up to the
time the property is substantially complete. The determination and calculation of certain costs requires estimates by us. Amounts included in capitalized costs are included in the investment basis of real estate assets. 
 


 
•
 
 We are engaged in the acquisition of individual properties as well as multi-property portfolios. We are required to allocate purchase price between
land, building, tenant improvements, leasing commissions, in-place leases, tenant relationships and above and below market leases. Above-market and below-market lease values for acquired properties are recorded based on the present value (using a
discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (ii) our estimate of fair market lease rents for each
corresponding in-place lease. Acquired above and below market leases are amortized over the remaining non-cancelable terms of the respective leases as an adjustment to rental income. In-place lease and tenant relationship values for acquired
properties are recorded based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall relationship with the respective tenant. The value allocated to in-place lease intangible assets is amortized to depreciation
and amortization expense over the remaining lease term of the respective lease. The value allocated to tenant relationships is amortized to depreciation and amortization expense over the expected term of the relationship, which includes an estimate
of the probability of lease renewal and its estimated term. We also must allocate purchase price on multi-property portfolios to individual properties. The allocation of purchase price is based on our assessment of various characteristics of the
markets where the property is located and the expected cash flows of the property.   


 
•
 
 In the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our current and deferred income
tax liabilities, and our compliance with REIT qualification requirements. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of tax laws. These estimates may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments may be required by a change in
assessment of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, our inability to qualify as a REIT, and changes in tax laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included
within the income tax provision.   


 
•
 
 In assessing the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, we estimate future taxable income, considering the feasibility of
ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax loss carryforwards. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or a 
  27 


Table of Contents


 
 
portion of our deferred tax assets in the future, we would reduce such amounts through a charge to income in the period in which that determination is made. Conversely, if we were to determine
that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, we would decrease the recorded valuation allowance through an increase to income in the period in which that determination is made.
 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2011 to Year Ended December 31, 2010  Our net loss available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stockholders and participating securities was $27.0 million and $222.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively. Basic and diluted net loss available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stockholders was $0.34 per share for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $3.53 per share for the year ended December 31,
2010.  The tables below summarize our revenues, property and construction expenses and depreciation and other amortization by
various categories for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Same store properties are properties owned prior to January 1, 2010 and held as an operating property through December 31, 2011 and developments and
redevelopments that were placed in service prior to January 1, 2010 or were substantially completed for the 12 months prior to January 1, 2010. Properties which are at least 75% occupied at acquisition are placed in service. All other
properties are placed in service as they reach the earlier of a) stabilized occupancy (generally defined as 90% occupied), or b) one year subsequent to acquisition or development completion. Acquired properties are properties that were
acquired subsequent to December 31, 2009 and held as an operating property through December 31, 2011. Sold properties are properties that were sold subsequent to December 31, 2009. (Re)Developments and land are land parcels and
developments and redevelopments that were not: a) substantially complete 12 months prior to January 1, 2010 or b) stabilized prior to January 1, 2010. Other revenues are derived from the operations of our maintenance
company, fees earned from our Joint Ventures and other miscellaneous revenues. Construction revenues and expenses represent revenues earned and expenses incurred in connection with certain subsidiaries of the Company acting as development manager to
construct industrial properties. Other expenses are derived from the operations of our maintenance company and other miscellaneous regional expenses.  Our future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the future acquisition and sale of properties. Our future revenues and expenses may vary materially
from historical rates.  For the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the occupancy rates of our same
store properties were 86.0% and 82.7%, respectively.   




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
($ in 000’s)
 

 REVENUES
  



 



 



 




 Same Store Properties
  
$
323,665
  
 
$
326,473
  
 
$
(2,808
) 
 
 
(0.9
)% 

 Acquired Properties
  
 
3,435
  
 
 
1,133
  
 
 
2,302
  
 
 
203.2
% 

 Sold Properties
  
 
4,726
  
 
 
11,310
  
 
 
(6,584
) 
 
 
(58.2
)% 

 (Re) Developments and Land, Not Included Above
  
 
867
  
 
 
675
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
28.4
% 

 Other
  
 
5,074
  
 
 
8,799
  
 
 
(3,725
) 
 
 
(42.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 





  
$
337,767
  
 
$
348,390
  
 
$
(10,623
) 
 
 
(3.0
)% 

 Discontinued Operations
  
 
(19,932
) 
 
 
(27,481
) 
 
 
7,549
  
 
 
(27.5
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Subtotal Revenues
  
$
317,835
  
 
$
320,909
  
 
$
(3,074
) 
 
 
(1.0
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Construction Revenues
  
 
—  
  
 
 
869
  
 
 
(869
) 
 
 
(100.0
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total Revenues
  
$
317,835
  
 
$
321,778
  
 
$
(3,943
) 
 
 
(1.2
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




  28 


Table of Contents
Revenues from same store properties decreased $2.8 million due primarily to a decrease in
lease cancelation fees and rental rates, offset by an increase in occupancy. Revenues from acquired properties increased $2.3 million due to the four industrial properties acquired subsequent to December 31, 2009 totaling approximately
1.2 million square feet of GLA. Revenues from sold properties decreased $6.6 million due to the 49 industrial properties and one leased land parcel sold subsequent to December 31, 2009 totaling approximately 4.0 million square feet of
GLA. Revenues from (re)developments and land increased $0.2 million primarily due to an increase in occupancy. Other revenues decreased $3.7 million due primarily to a decrease in fees earned from our Joint Ventures. Construction revenues decreased
$0.9 million due to the substantial completion during 2010 of certain development projects for which we were acting in the capacity of development manager.   




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
($ in 000’s)
 

 PROPERTY AND CONSTRUCTION EXPENSES
  



 



 



 




 Same Store Properties
  
$
102,230
  
 
$
101,344
  
 
$
886
  
 
 
0.9
% 

 Acquired Properties
  
 
640
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
440
  
 
 
220.0
% 

 Sold Properties
  
 
2,369
  
 
 
5,040
  
 
 
(2,671
) 
 
 
(53.0
)% 

 (Re) Developments and Land, Not Included Above
  
 
970
  
 
 
1,153
  
 
 
(183
) 
 
 
(15.9
)% 

 Other
  
 
11,039
  
 
 
12,735
  
 
 
(1,696
) 
 
 
(13.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 





  
$
117,248
  
 
$
120,472
  
 
$
(3,224
) 
 
 
(2.7
)% 

 Discontinued Operations
  
 
(8,658
) 
 
 
(11,821
) 
 
 
3,163
  
 
 
(26.8
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Property Expenses
  
$
108,590
  
 
$
108,651
  
 
$
(61
) 
 
 
(0.1
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Construction Expenses
  
 
—  
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
(507
) 
 
 
(100.0
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total Property and Construction Expenses
  
$
108,590
  
 
$
109,158
  
 
$
(568
) 
 
 
(0.5
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Property expenses include real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management, utilities,
insurance and other property related expenses. Property expenses from same store properties remained relatively unchanged. Property expenses from acquired properties increased $0.4 million due to properties acquired subsequent to December 31,
2009. Property expenses from sold properties decreased $2.7 million due to properties sold subsequent to December 31, 2009. Property expenses from (re)developments and land decreased $0.2 million due to a decrease in real estate tax expense and
a decrease in bad debt expense. The $1.7 million decrease in other expense is primarily attributable to a decrease in compensation resulting from a reduction in employee headcount. Construction expenses decreased $0.5 million due to the substantial
completion during 2010 of certain development projects for which we were acting in the capacity of development manager. 
General and administrative expense decreased $6.0 million, or 22.4%, due primarily to a decrease in compensation expense resulting from
the reduction in employee headcount that occurred in 2010, a decrease in rent expense resulting from a reduction in office space during 2011 and 2010, a decrease in lawsuit settlement expense and a decrease in franchise tax expense primarily due to
the reversal of a state franchise tax reserve relating to the 1996-2001 tax years.  We committed to a plan to reduce
organizational and overhead costs in October 2008 and have subsequently modified that plan with the goal of further reducing these costs. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized $1.6 million in restructuring charges to provide for
costs associated with the termination of certain office leases ($1.2 million) and other costs ($0.4 million) associated with implementing our restructuring plan. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $1.9 million in
restructuring charges to provide for employee severance and benefits ($0.5 million), costs associated with the termination of certain office leases ($0.7 million) and other costs ($0.7 million) associated with implementing our
restructuring plan.  On October 22, 2010, we amended our Old Credit Facility. In conjunction with the amendment,
management identified a pool of real estate assets (the “Non-Strategic Assets”) that it intends to sell. At December 31, 2010, all of the Non-Strategic Assets, which consisted of 193 industrial properties comprising

  29 


Table of Contents

approximately 16.1 million square feet of GLA and land parcels comprising approximately 695 acres, were classified as held for sale (except one industrial property comprising
0.3 million square feet of GLA). An impairment charge of $185.4 million was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2010 related to certain of the Non-Strategic Assets due to a reassessment of the hold period. The impairment charge was
necessary in order to adjust the carrying value of the assets to fair market value less costs to sell. At December 31, 2011, there are 87 industrial properties comprising approximately 6.5 million square feet of GLA that no longer qualify
to be classified as held for sale and as such, any impairment charge or reversal recorded during 2011 and 2010 is reflected in continuing operations. Additionally, any impairment charge or reversal related to a land parcel, whether held for sale or
held for use, is reflected in continuing operations. The impairment reversal included in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $8.8 million is primarily comprised of a reversal of impairment of $2.9 million relating to
certain industrial properties and land parcels that no longer qualify for held for sale classification and $5.9 million relating to a sold land parcel.  In addition to the $185.4 million of impairment recorded related to the Non-Strategic Assets, in connection with our periodic review of the carrying values of our properties and the negotiation of a new
lease, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.2 million during the first quarter of 2010 related to one property located in Grand Rapids, Michigan.   




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
($ in 000’s)
 

 DEPRECIATION AND OTHER AMORTIZATION
  



 



 



 




 Same Store Properties
  
$
117,855
  
 
$
128,137
  
 
$
(10,282
) 
 
 
(8.0
)% 

 Acquired Properties
  
 
2,194
  
 
 
603
  
 
 
1,591
  
 
 
263.8
% 

 Sold Properties
  
 
1,521
  
 
 
5,358
  
 
 
(3,837
) 
 
 
(71.6
)% 

 (Re) Developments and Land, Not Included Above
  
 
753
  
 
 
498
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
51.2
% 

 Corporate Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment
  
 
1,426
  
 
 
1,975
  
 
 
(549
) 
 
 
(27.8
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 





  
$
123,749
  
 
$
136,571
  
 
$
(12,822
) 
 
 
(9.4
)% 

 Discontinued Operations
  
 
(2,145
) 
 
 
(11,273
) 
 
 
9,128
  
 
 
(81.0
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total Depreciation and Other Amortization
  
$
121,604
  
 
$
125,298
  
 
$
(3,694
) 
 
 
(2.9
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Depreciation and other amortization for same store properties decreased $10.3 million primarily due to
the cessation of depreciation and amortization of the Non-Strategic Assets that qualified for held for sale classification during 2011 as well as accelerated depreciation and amortization taken during the twelve months ended December 31, 2010,
attributable to certain tenants who terminated their lease early. Depreciation and other amortization from acquired properties increased $1.6 million due to properties acquired subsequent to December 31, 2009. Depreciation and other
amortization from sold properties decreased $3.8 million due to properties sold subsequent to December 31, 2009. Depreciation and other amortization for (re)developments and land and other increased $0.3 million due primarily to an increase in
the substantial completion of developments. Corporate furniture, fixtures and equipment decreased $0.5 million primarily due to assets becoming fully depreciated.  Interest income decreased $0.4 million, or 10.1%, due primarily to a decrease in the weighted average mortgage loans receivable balance outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to
the year ended December 31, 2010.  Interest expense, inclusive of $0.1 million and $0.3 million of interest expense
included in discontinued operations, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, decreased $6.0 million, or 5.6%, primarily due to a decrease in the weighted average debt balance outstanding for the year ended
December 31, 2011 ($1,594.3 million) as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 ($1,867.8 million) and by an increase in capitalized interest for the year ended December 31, 2011 due to an increase in development activities,
offset 
  30 


Table of Contents

by an increase in the weighted average interest rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 (6.31%), as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 (5.68%). 
Amortization of deferred financing costs increased $0.5 million, or 14.1%, due primarily to an increase in financing costs related to the
amendment of our Old Credit Facility in October 2010.  In October 2008, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (the
“Series F Agreement”) to mitigate our exposure to floating interest rates related to the coupon reset of the Company’s Series F Preferred Stock. The Series F Agreement has a notional value of $50.0 million and is
effective from April 1, 2009 through October 1, 2013. The Series F Agreement fixes the 30-year U.S. Treasury rate at 5.2175%. We recorded $1.7 million in mark to market loss, inclusive of $0.6 million in swap
payments, which is included in Mark-to-Market (Loss) Gain on Interest Rate Protection Agreements for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $1.1 million in mark to market loss, inclusive of $0.5 million in swap
payments, for the year ended December 31, 2010.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized a net loss from
retirement of debt of $5.5 million due primarily to the early payoff of certain mortgage loans, the partial repurchase of certain series of our senior unsecured notes, the write-off of unamortized fees associated with the Old Credit Facility and a
loss on a transfer of a property to a lender in satisfaction of a mortgage loan. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized a net loss from retirement of debt of $4.3 million due primarily to the redemption of our 2011 Notes.
 Foreign currency exchange loss of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 relates to the wind-down of our
operations in Canada. Foreign currency exchange loss of $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 relates to the wind-down of our operations in Europe.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, Equity in Income of Joint Ventures was $1.0 million, as compared to Equity in Income of Joint Ventures of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31,
2010. The increase of $0.3 million is due primarily to selling our equity interests in five joint ventures (the 2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture, the 2005 Core Joint Venture, the 2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program, the 2006
Land/Development Joint Venture and the 2007 Canada Joint Venture) during 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our pro rata share of net losses from two of the sold joint ventures of $2.3 million was offset by our pro rata share of net
income from three of the sold joint ventures of $2.1 million.  The Gain on Sale of Joint Venture Interests of
$11.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 relates to the sale of our 10% equity interests in each of the 2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture, the 2005 Core Joint Venture, the 2006 Land/Development Joint Venture and the
2007 Canada Joint Venture to our joint venture partner on August 5, 2010. Additionally, the gain includes approximately $2.7 million of proceeds related to the separate sales of three industrial properties by the Joint Ventures during
August and October 2010 for which, in accordance with the sale agreement, we were entitled to a final distribution.  For the
year ended December 31, 2011, Gain on Change in Control of Interests relates to the acquisition of the 85% equity interest in one property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture. The $0.7 million gain is the
difference between our carrying value and fair value of our equity interest on the acquisition date.  Income tax provision
(included in continuing operations, discontinued operations and gain on sale of real estate) decreased by $1.2 million, or 35.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to
an increase in state taxes in 2010 due to a one time unfavorable court decision on business loss carryforwards in the State of Michigan in 2010 and gain on sale of joint venture interests in 2010, partially offset by an increase in
gain on sale of real estate within our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. 
  31 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes certain information regarding the industrial properties
included in discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
($ in 000’s)
 

 Total Revenues
  
$
19,932
  
 
$
27,481
  

 Property Expenses
  
 
(8,658
) 
 
 
(11,821
) 

 Impairment of Real Estate
  
 
(6,146
) 
 
 
(81,648
) 

 Depreciation and Amortization
  
 
(2,145
) 
 
 
(11,273
) 

 Interest Expense
  
 
(63
) 
 
 
(268
) 

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate
  
 
20,419
  
 
 
11,092
  

 Provision for Income Taxes
  
 
(1,246
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations
  
$
22,093
  
 
$
(66,437
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 reflects the results of
operations and gain on sale of real estate relating to 36 industrial properties that were sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 and the results of operations of 46 industrial properties that were identified as held for sale at
December 31, 2011. The impairment loss for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $6.1 million relates to an impairment charge related to certain Non-Strategic assets that were either sold during the year or classified as held for sale at
December 31, 2011.  Loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the results of
operations and gain on sale of real estate relating to 13 industrial properties and one land parcel that generated ground rental revenue that were sold during the year ended December 31, 2010, the results of operations of 36 industrial
properties that were sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 and the results of operations of the 46 industrial properties identified as held for sale at December 31, 2011. The impairment loss for the year ended December 31, 2010
of $81.6 million relates to an impairment charge related to certain Non-Strategic assets that were either sold during the year or classified as held for sale at December 31, 2011. 
The $1.4 million gain on sale of real estate for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted from the sale of one land parcel that did
not meet the criteria for inclusion in discontinued operations. The $0.9 million gain on sale of real estate for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted from the sale of several land parcels that did not meet the criteria for inclusion
in discontinued operations.  Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2010 to Year Ended December 31, 2009 
Our net loss available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stockholders and participating securities was
$222.5 million and $13.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Basic and diluted net loss available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stockholders were $3.53 per share for the year
ended December 31, 2010 and $0.28 per share for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The tables below summarize our
revenues, property and construction expenses and depreciation and other amortization by various categories for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Same store properties are properties owned prior to January 1,
2009 and held as an operating property through December 31, 2010 and developments and redevelopments that were placed in service prior to January 1, 2009 or were substantially completed for the 12 months prior to January 1, 2009.
Properties which are at least 75% occupied at acquisition are placed in service. All other properties are placed in service as they reach the earlier of a) stabilized occupancy (generally defined as 90% occupied), or b) one year subsequent
to acquisition or development completion. Acquired properties are properties that were acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008 and held as an operating property through December 31, 2010. Sold properties are properties that were sold
subsequent to December 31, 2008. (Re)Developments and land are land parcels and developments and redevelopments that were not: a) substantially complete 12 months prior to January 1, 2009 or b) stabilized prior

  32 


Table of Contents

to January 1, 2009. Other revenues are derived from the operations of our maintenance company, fees earned from our Joint Ventures and other miscellaneous revenues. Construction revenues and
expenses represent revenues earned and expenses incurred in connection with the taxable REIT subsidiaries acting as development manager to construct industrial properties and also include revenues and expenses related to the development and sale of
properties built for third parties. Other expenses are derived from the operations of our maintenance company and other miscellaneous regional expenses.  Our future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the future acquisition and sale of properties. Our future revenues and expenses may vary materially
from historical rates.  For the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the occupancy rates of our same
store properties were 83.1% and 83.5%, respectively.   




















 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
($ in 000’s)
 

 REVENUES
  



 



 



 




 Same Store Properties
  
$
325,280
  
 
$
331,917
  
 
$
(6,637
) 
 
 
(2.0
)% 

 Acquired Properties
  
 
1,133
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,133
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sold Properties
  
 
1,314
  
 
 
9,944
  
 
 
(8,630
) 
 
 
(86.8
)% 

 (Re) Developments and Land, Not Included Above
  
 
11,870
  
 
 
7,044
  
 
 
4,826
  
 
 
68.5
% 

 Other
  
 
8,793
  
 
 
17,560
  
 
 
(8,767
) 
 
 
(49.9
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 





  
$
348,390
  
 
$
366,465
  
 
$
(18,075
) 
 
 
(4.9
)% 

 Discontinued Operations
  
 
(27,481
) 
 
 
(36,850
) 
 
 
9,369
  
 
 
(25.4
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Subtotal Revenues
  
$
320,909
  
 
$
329,615
  
 
$
(8,706
) 
 
 
(2.6
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Construction Revenues
  
 
869
  
 
 
54,957
  
 
 
(54,088
) 
 
 
(98.4
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total Revenues
  
$
321,778
  
 
$
384,572
  
 
$
(62,794
) 
 
 
(16.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Revenues from same store properties decreased $6.6 million due primarily to a decrease in rental
rates and a decrease in occupancy. Revenues from acquired properties increased $1.1 million due to the three industrial properties acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008 totaling approximately 0.5 million square feet of GLA.
Revenues from sold properties decreased $8.6 million due to the 28 industrial properties and one leased land parcel sold subsequent to December 31, 2008 totaling approximately 3.0 million square feet of GLA. Revenues from
(re)developments and land increased $4.8 million primarily due to an increase in occupancy. Other revenues decreased $8.8 million due primarily to a decrease in fees earned from our Joint Ventures. Construction revenues decreased
$54.1 million primarily due to the substantial completion during 2010 and 2009 of certain development projects for which we were acting in the capacity of development manager. 
  33 


Table of Contents
 




















 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
($ in 000’s)
 

 PROPERTY AND CONSTRUCTION EXPENSES
  



 



 



 




 Same Store Properties
  
$
103,148
  
 
$
105,341
  
 
$
(2,193
) 
 
 
(2.1
)% 

 Acquired Properties
  
 
200
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sold Properties
  
 
713
  
 
 
2,940
  
 
 
(2,227
) 
 
 
(75.7
)% 

 (Re) Developments and Land, Not Included Above
  
 
3,676
  
 
 
3,736
  
 
 
(60
) 
 
 
(1.6
)% 

 Other
  
 
12,735
  
 
 
14,229
  
 
 
(1,494
) 
 
 
(10.5
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 





  
$
120,472
  
 
$
126,246
  
 
$
(5,774
) 
 
 
(4.6
)% 

 Discontinued Operations
  
 
(11,821
) 
 
 
(14,966
) 
 
 
3,145
  
 
 
(21.0
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Property Expenses
  
$
108,651
  
 
$
111,280
  
 
$
(2,629
) 
 
 
(2.4
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Construction Expenses
  
 
507
  
 
 
52,720
  
 
 
(52,213
) 
 
 
(99.0
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total Property and Construction Expenses
  
$
109,158
  
 
$
164,000
  
 
$
(54,842
) 
 
 
(33.4
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Property expenses include real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management, utilities,
insurance and other property related expenses. Property expenses from same store properties decreased $2.2 million due primarily to a decrease in bad debt expense. Property expenses from acquired properties increased $0.2 million due to
properties acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008. Property expenses from sold properties decreased $2.2 million due to properties sold subsequent to December 31, 2008. Property expenses from (re)developments and land remained
relatively unchanged. The $1.5 million decrease in other expense is primarily attributable to a decrease in compensation. Construction expenses decreased $52.2 million primarily due to the substantial completion during 2010 and 2009 of
certain development projects for which we were acting in the capacity of development manager.  General and administrative
expense decreased $11.2 million, or 29.7%, due primarily to a decrease in compensation resulting from the reduction in employee headcount occurring in 2009 and 2010, a decrease in rent expense resulting from office closings in 2009 and 2010 and
a decrease in legal and professional services, partially offset by an increase in lawsuit settlements.  We committed to a plan
to reduce organizational and overhead costs in October 2008 and have subsequently modified that plan with the goal of further reducing these costs. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $1.9 million in restructuring charges
to provide for employee severance and benefits ($0.5 million), costs associated with the termination of certain office leases ($0.7 million) and other costs ($0.7 million) associated with implementing our restructuring plan. For the
year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded as restructuring costs a pre-tax charge of $7.8 million to provide for employee severance and benefits ($5.2 million), costs associated with the termination of certain office leases
($1.9 million) and other costs ($0.7 million) associated with implementing the restructuring plan.  On
October 22, 2010, we amended our Old Credit Facility. In conjunction with the amendment, management identified a pool of real estate assets (the “Non-Strategic Assets”) that it intends to sell. At December 31, 2010, all of the
Non-Strategic Assets, which consisted of 193 industrial properties comprising approximately 16.1 million square feet of GLA and land parcels comprising approximately 695 acres, were classified as held for sale (except one industrial property
comprising 0.3 million square feet of GLA). An impairment charge of $185.4 million was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2010 related to certain of the Non-Strategic Assets due to a reassessment of the hold period. The impairment
charge was necessary in order to adjust the carrying value of the assets to fair market value less costs to sell. At December 31, 2011, there are 87 industrial properties comprising approximately 6.5 million square feet of GLA that no
longer qualify to be classified as held for sale and as such, any impairment charge or reversal recorded during 2011 and 2010 is reflected in continuing operations. Additionally, any impairment charge or reversal related to a land parcel, whether
held for sale or held for use, is reflected in continuing operations. The impairment charge of $112.9 million included in 
  34 


Table of Contents

continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily comprised of $104.6 million relating to certain industrial properties and land parcels that no longer qualify for held
for sale classification and $8.3 million relating to sold land parcels.  As a result of adverse conditions in the credit and
real estate markets, we recorded an impairment charge of $6.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to one property in the Inland Empire market ($1.3 million of this impairment charge is included in discontinued
operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 because one building of the two-building property was sold during the year ended December 31, 2011).   




















 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
($ in 000’s)
 

 DEPRECIATION AND OTHER AMORTIZATION
  



 



 



 




 Same Store Properties
  
$
128,089
  
 
$
138,313
  
 
$
(10,224
) 
 
 
(7.4
)% 

 Acquired Properties
  
 
603
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
603
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sold Properties
  
 
664
  
 
 
4,798
  
 
 
(4,134
) 
 
 
(86.2
)% 

 (Re) Developments and Land, Not Included Above
  
 
5,240
  
 
 
4,560
  
 
 
680
  
 
 
14.9
% 

 Corporate Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment
  
 
1,975
  
 
 
2,192
  
 
 
(217
) 
 
 
(9.9
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 





  
$
136,571
  
 
$
149,863
  
 
$
(13,292
) 
 
 
(8.9
)% 

 Discontinued Operations
  
 
(11,273
) 
 
 
(17,992
) 
 
 
6,719
  
 
 
(37.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total Depreciation and Other Amortization
  
$
125,298
  
 
$
131,871
  
 
$
(6,573
) 
 
 
(5.0
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Depreciation and other amortization for same store properties decreased $10.2 million due primarily
to accelerated depreciation and amortization taken during the year ended December 31, 2009 attributable to the cessation of depreciation and amortization of the Non-Strategic Assets that qualified for held for sale classification during the
fourth quarter of 2010 as well as to certain tenants who terminated their leases early. Depreciation and other amortization from acquired properties increased $0.6 million due to properties acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008.
Depreciation and other amortization from sold properties decreased $4.1 million due to properties sold subsequent to December 31, 2008. Depreciation and other amortization for (re)developments and land and other increased $0.7 million
due primarily to an increase in the substantial completion of developments. Corporate furniture, fixtures and equipment decreased $0.2 million primarily due to accelerated depreciation on furniture, fixtures and equipment taken in 2009 related
to the termination of certain office leases.  Interest income increased $1.3 million, or 41.5%, due primarily to an
increase in the weighted average mortgage loans receivable balance outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009.  Interest expense, inclusive of $0.3 million and $0.7 million of interest expense included in discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, decreased
$9.3 million, or 8.0%, primarily due to a decrease in the weighted average debt balance outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2010 ($1,867.8 million), as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 ($2,050.5 million),
offset by an increase in the weighted average interest rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 (5.68%), as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 (5.64%) and by a decrease in capitalized interest for the year ended
December 31, 2010 due to a decrease in development activities.  Amortization of deferred financing costs increased
$0.4 million, or 14.6%, due primarily to an increase in costs related to the amendment of our Old Credit Facility in October 2010 and the origination of mortgage financings during 2010 and 2009, partially offset by expensing of capitalized loan
fees as a result of the repurchase and retirement of certain of our senior unsecured notes. The net unamortized deferred financing fees related to the prior line of credit are amortized over the remaining amortization period, except for
$0.2 million of unamortized deferred financing costs that were expensed as a result of the decrease in the capacity of the Old Credit Facility, which is included in (Loss) Gain From Retirement of Debt for the year ended December 31, 2010.

  35 


Table of Contents
We recorded $1.1 million in mark to market loss, inclusive of $0.5 million in swap
payments, related to the Series F Agreement which is included in Mark-to-Market (Loss) Gain on Interest Rate Protection Agreements for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $2.7 million in mark to market gain, inclusive of
$0.5 million of swap payments, for the year ended December 31, 2009. Additionally included in Mark-to-Market Gain on Interest Rate Protection Agreements for the year ended December 31, 2009 is $1.0 million related to two forward
starting swaps. In January 2008, we entered into two forward starting swaps each with a notional value of $59.8 million, which fixed the interest rate on forecasted debt offerings. We designated both swaps as cash flow hedges. The rates on the
forecasted debt issuances underlying the swaps locked on March 20, 2009 (the “Forward Starting Agreement 1”) and on April 6, 2009 (the “Forward Starting Agreement 2”), and as such, the swaps ceased to qualify for hedge
accounting. The change in value of Forward Starting Agreement 1 and Forward Starting Agreement 2 from the respective day the interest rate on the underlying debt locked until settlement was $1.0 million and is included in Mark-to-Market (Loss)
Gain on Interest Rate Protection Agreements for the year ended December 31, 2009.  For the year ended December 31,
2010, we recognized a net loss from retirement of debt of $4.3 million due primarily to the redemption of our 2011 Notes. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized a $34.6 million gain from retirement of debt due to the
partial repurchase of certain series of our senior unsecured notes.  Foreign currency exchange loss of $0.2 million for
the year ended December 31, 2010 relates to our wind-down of our operations in Europe.  For the year ended
December 31, 2010, Equity in Income of Joint Ventures was $0.7 million, as compared to Equity in Loss of Joint Ventures of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The variance of $7.2 million is due primarily to
impairment losses of $5.6 million we recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to the 2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program as a result of adverse conditions in the credit and real estate markets and also due to the gain on
sale of our 15% interest in the 2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program which occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010, partially offset by a decrease in our pro rata share of gain on sale of real estate and earn outs on property sales
from the 2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture and a decrease in our pro rata share of income from the 2005 Core Joint Venture during the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. 
The Gain on Sale of Joint Venture Interests of $11.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 relates to the sale of our
10% equity interests in each of the 2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture, the 2005 Core Joint Venture, the 2006 Land/Development Joint Venture and the 2007 Canada Joint Venture to our joint venture partner on August 5, 2010.
Additionally, the gain includes approximately $2.7 million of proceeds related to the separate sales of three industrial properties by the Joint Ventures during August and October 2010 for which, in accordance with the sale agreement, we were
entitled to a final distribution.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded an income tax provision of
$3.3 million, as compared to an income tax benefit of $23.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The variance of $26.5 million is due primarily to a loss carryback generated from the tax liquidation of one of our taxable
REIT subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase in state taxes related to an unfavorable court decision on business loss carryforwards in the State of Michigan for the year ended December 31, 2010 and gain on sale of
joint venture interests in 2010. 
  36 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes certain information regarding the industrial properties
included in discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009.   












 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
($ in 000’s)
 

 Total Revenues
  
$
27,481
  
 
$
36,850
  

 Property Expenses
  
 
(11,821
) 
 
 
(14,966
) 

 Impairment of Real Estate
  
 
(81,648
) 
 
 
(1,317
) 

 Depreciation and Amortization
  
 
(11,273
) 
 
 
(17,992
) 

 Interest Expense
  
 
(268
) 
 
 
(653
) 

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate
  
 
11,092
  
 
 
24,206
  

 Provision for Income Taxes
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,846
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) Income from Discontinued Operations
  
$
(66,437
) 
 
$
24,282
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the results of
operations and gain on sale of real estate relating to 13 industrial properties and one land parcel that generated ground rental revenue that were sold during the year ended December 31, 2010, the results of operations of 36 industrial
properties that were sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 and the results of operations of 46 industrial properties that were identified as held for sale at December 31, 2011. The impairment loss for the year ended December 31,
2010 of $81.6 million relates to an impairment charge related to certain Non-Strategic assets that were either sold during the year or classified as held for sale at December 31, 2011. 
Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflects the results of operations and gain on sale of real
estate relating to 15 industrial properties that were sold during the year ended December 31, 2009, the results of operations of 13 industrial properties and one land parcel that generated ground rental revenue that were sold during the year
ended December 31, 2010, the results of operations of 36 industrial properties that were sold during the year ended December 31, 2011 and the results of operations of the 46 industrial properties identified as held for sale at December 31,
2011. The impairment loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $1.3 million relates to an impairment charge recorded related to one sold property in the Inland Empire market. The impairment charge was a result of adverse conditions in the
credit and real estate markets.  The $0.9 million and $0.4 million gain on sale of real estate for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulted from the sale of several land parcels that do not meet the criteria for inclusion in discontinued operations.  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  At December 31, 2011 our cash and
cash equivalents was approximately $10.2 million. We also had $300.5 million available for additional borrowings under our Unsecured Credit Facility, subject to certain restrictions. 
We have considered our short-term (through December 31, 2012) liquidity needs and the adequacy of our estimated cash flow from
operations and other expected liquidity sources to meet these needs. Our 2012 Notes, in the aggregate principal amount of $61.8 million, are due on April 15, 2012. We expect to satisfy the payment obligations on the 2012 Notes with
borrowings on our Unsecured Credit Facility. With the exception of the 2012 Notes, we believe that our principal short-term liquidity needs are to fund normal recurring expenses, property acquisitions, developments, renovations, expansions and other
nonrecurring capital improvements, debt service requirements and the minimum distributions required to maintain our REIT qualification under the Code. We anticipate that these needs will be met with cash flows provided by operating and investing
activities, including the disposition of select assets. 
  37 


Table of Contents
We expect to meet long-term (after December 31, 2012) liquidity requirements such as
property acquisitions, developments, scheduled debt maturities, major renovations, expansions and other nonrecurring capital improvements through the disposition of select assets, long-term unsecured and secured indebtedness and the issuance of
additional equity securities, subject to market conditions.  We also have financed the development or acquisition of
additional properties through borrowings under our Unsecured Credit Facility and may finance the development or acquisition of additional properties through such borrowings, to the extent capacity is available, in the future. At December 31,
2011, borrowings under our Unsecured Credit Facility bore interest at a weighted average interest rate of 2.385%. As of February 28, 2012, we had approximately $262.4 million available for additional borrowings under our Unsecured Credit
Facility, subject to certain restrictions. Our Unsecured Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants including limitations on incurrence of debt and debt service coverage. Our access to borrowings may be limited if we fail to meet any of
these covenants. We believe that we were in compliance with our financial covenants as of December 31, 2011, and we anticipate that we will be able to operate in compliance with our financial covenants in 2012. 
Our senior unsecured notes have been assigned credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings of
BB-/Ba3/BB, respectively. In the event of a downgrade, we believe we would continue to have access to sufficient capital; however, our cost of borrowing would increase and our ability to access certain financial markets may be limited. 
Year Ended December 31, 2011  Net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $87.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 was comprised primarily of the non-cash adjustments of approximately $111.7 million,
operating distributions received in excess of equity in income of joint ventures of $0.1 million and a decrease in restricted cash of approximately $0.1 million, offset by net loss of approximately $9.2 million, payments of discounts associated with
senior unsecured notes of $5.3 million, prepayment premiums associated with the retirement of debt of approximately $1.3 million and net change in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $8.6 million. The adjustments for the non-cash items
of approximately $111.7 million are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of approximately $136.3 million, the provision for bad debt of approximately $1.1 million, the loss from retirement of debt of approximately $5.5 million and
the mark to market loss related to the Series F Agreement of approximately $1.7 million, offset by the reversal of impairment of real estate of $2.7 million, the gain on sale of real estate of approximately $21.8 million, the gain on the change in
control of interests in connection with the redemption of the 85% equity interest in one property from the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture of approximately $0.7 million and the effect of the straight-lining of rental income of approximately $7.7
million.  Net cash used in investing activities of approximately $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011
was comprised primarily of the acquisition of the 85% equity interest in one property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture development of real estate, capital expenditures related to the improvement of existing real
estate and payments related to leasing activities, offset by the net proceeds from the sale of real estate and the repayments on our mortgage loan receivables.  We invested approximately $0.2 million in, and received total distributions of approximately $1.7 million, from our Joint Ventures. As of December 31, 2011, our Joint Ventures owned
seven industrial properties comprising approximately 3.4 million square feet of GLA.  During the year ended
December 31, 2011, we sold 36 industrial properties comprising approximately 2.9 million square feet of GLA and one land parcel. Proceeds from the sales of the 36 industrial properties and one land parcel, net of closing costs,
were approximately $76.0 million. We are in various stages of discussions with third parties for the sale of additional properties and plan to continue to selectively market other properties

  38 


Table of Contents

for sale throughout 2012. We expect to use at least a portion of sale proceeds to pay down additional debt. If we are unable to sell properties on an advantageous basis, this may impair our
liquidity and our ability to meet our financial covenants.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we acquired one
industrial property comprising approximately 0.7 million square feet of GLA in connection with the redemption of the 85% equity interest in one property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture. The acquisition was
funded with a cash payment of $5.3 million and the assumption of a mortgage loan in the amount of $24.4 million.  Net cash
used in financing activities of approximately $99.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 was comprised primarily of repayments on our senior unsecured notes and mortgage loans payable, payments of debt and equity issuance costs, net
repayments on our Unsecured Credit Facility, preferred stock dividends, the repurchase and retirement of restricted stock and payments on the interest rate swap agreement offset by the net proceeds from the issuance of common stock and proceeds from
the new mortgage financings.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we received proceeds from the origination of
$255.9 million in mortgage loans. The mortgage loans bear interest at a fixed rate between 4.45% and 4.85% and mature between June 2018 and October 2021. We may engage various lenders, from time to time, regarding the origination of additional
mortgage financings and the terms and conditions thereof. To the extent additional mortgage financing is originated, we expect to use proceeds received to pay down our other debt and/or make select property acquisitions. No assurances can be made
that additional mortgage financing will be obtained.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we redeemed or repurchased
$241.7 million of our unsecured notes at an aggregate purchase price of $239.6 million. We may from time to time repay additional amounts of our outstanding debt. Any repayments would depend upon prevailing market conditions, our liquidity
requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors we consider important. Future repayments may materially impact our liquidity, taxable income and results of operations. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we issued 17,415,856 shares of the Company’s common stock under the ATM and
underwritten public offerings, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $202.8 million. We may access the equity markets again, subject to contractual restrictions and market conditions. To the extent additional equity offerings occur, we expect
to use at least a portion of the proceeds received to reduce our indebtedness or make property acquisitions.  Contractual Obligations and
Commitments  The following table lists our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2011 (in
thousands):   
























 
  
 
 
  
Payments Due by Period
 

 
  
Total
 
  
Less Than1 Year
 
  
1-3 Years
 
  
3-5 Years
 
  
Over 5 Years
 

 Operating and Ground Leases(1)
  
$
35,756
  
  
$
1,892
  
  
$
3,172
  
  
$
2,640
  
  
$
28,052
  

 Long-term Debt
  
 
1,483,803
  
  
 
74,518
  
  
 
318,227
  
  
 
355,555
  
  
 
735,503
  

 Interest Expense on Long-Term Debt(1)(2)
  
 
569,752
  
  
 
81,249
  
  
 
152,524
  
  
 
114,198
  
  
 
221,781
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,089,311
  
  
$
157,659
  
  
$
473,923
  
  
$
472,393
  
  
$
985,336
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Not on balance sheet. 


(2)
Does not include interest expense on our Unsecured Credit Facility. 
  39 


Table of Contents
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
Letters of credit are issued in most cases as pledges to governmental entities for development purposes. At December 31, 2011, we
have $0.8 million in outstanding letters of credit. Additionally, we have $6.0 million in performance bonds outstanding at December 31, 2011. The letters of credit and performance bonds are not reflected as liabilities on our balance sheet. We
have no other off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303 of Regulation S-K, other than those disclosed on the Contractual Obligations and Commitments table above, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future
effect on our financial condition, results of operation or liquidity and capital resources.  Environmental 
We paid approximately $1.1 million and $0.6 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to environmental expenditures. We
estimate 2012 expenditures of approximately $1.2 million. We estimate that the aggregate expenditures which need to be expended in 2012 and beyond with regard to currently identified environmental issues will not exceed approximately $2.6 million.
 Inflation 
For the last several years, inflation has not had a significant impact on the Company because of the relatively low inflation rates in our
markets of operation. Most of our leases require the tenants to pay their share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses
resulting from inflation. In addition, many of the outstanding leases expire within six years which may enable us to replace existing leases with new leases at higher base rentals if rents of existing leases are below the then-existing market rate.
 Market Risk 
The following discussion about our risk-management activities includes “forward-looking statements” that involve risk and
uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Our business subjects us to market risk from interest rates, and to a much lesser extent, foreign currency fluctuations. 
Interest Rate Risk  This
analysis presents the hypothetical gain or loss in earnings, cash flows or fair value of the financial instruments and derivative instruments which are held by us at December 31, 2011 that are sensitive to changes in the interest rates. While
this analysis may have some use as a benchmark, it should not be viewed as a forecast.  In the normal course of business, we
also face risks that are either non-financial or non-quantifiable. Such risks principally include credit risk and legal risk and are not represented in the following analysis.  At December 31, 2011, approximately $1,330.5 million (approximately 89.9% of total debt at December 31, 2011) of our debt was fixed rate debt and approximately $149.0 million
(approximately 10.1% of total debt at December 31, 2011) was variable rate debt. Currently, we do not enter into financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. 
For fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt, but not our earnings or cash flows.
Conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in the base interest rate used to calculate the all-in interest rate generally do not impact the fair value of the debt, but would affect our future earnings and cash flows. The interest rate risk and
changes in fair market value of fixed rate debt generally do not have a significant impact on us until we are required to refinance such debt. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the maturity dates of our
various fixed rate debt. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Based upon the amount of variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2011, a 10%
increase or decrease in the interest rate on our variable rate debt would decrease or increase, respectively, future net income and cash flows by approximately $0.4 million per year. The foregoing calculation assumes an instantaneous increase or
decrease in the rates applicable to the amount of borrowings outstanding under our Unsecured Credit Facility at December 31, 2011. Changes in LIBOR could result in a greater than 10% increase in such rates. In addition, the calculation does not
account for our option to elect the lower of two different interest rates under our borrowings or other possible actions, such as prepayment, that we might take in response to any rate increase. A 10% increase in interest rates would decrease the
fair value of the fixed rate debt at December 31, 2011 by approximately $36.7 million to $1,337.3 million. A 10% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of the fixed rate debt at December 31, 2011 by approximately $38.9
million to $1,412.9 million.  The use of derivative financial instruments allows us to manage risks of increases in interest
rates with respect to the effect these fluctuations would have on our earnings and cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, we had one outstanding derivative with a notional amount of $50.0 million which mitigates our exposure to floating
interest rates related to the reset rate of our Series F Preferred Stock.  Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 
Owning, operating and developing industrial property outside of the United States exposes us to the possibility of volatile movements in
foreign exchange rates. Changes in foreign currencies can affect the operating results of international operations reported in U.S. dollars and the value of the foreign assets reported in U.S. dollars. The economic impact of foreign
exchange rate movements is complex because such changes are often linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. At December 31, 2011, we owned one land parcel for which the
U.S. dollar was not the functional currency. The land parcel is located in Ontario, Canada and uses the Canadian dollar as its functional currency.  Supplemental Earnings Measure  Investors in and industry analysts following
the real estate industry utilize funds from operations (“FFO”) as a supplemental operating performance measure of an equity REIT. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America (“GAAP”) implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time through depreciation. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market
conditions, many industry analysts and investors prefer to supplement operating results that use historical cost accounting. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT
operating performance that excludes historical cost depreciation, among other items, from net income determined in accordance with GAAP. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. FFO available to common stockholders and participating securities should
not be considered as a substitute for its most comparable GAAP measure, net income (loss) available to common stockholders and participating securities, or any other measures derived in accordance with GAAP. FFO does not represent cash generated
from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity, nor is it indicative of funds available for our cash needs, including our ability
to make cash distributions. FFO is calculated by us in accordance with the definition adopted by the Board of Governors of NAREIT and therefore may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. 
Management believes that the use of FFO available to common stockholders and participating securities, combined with net income (which
remains the primary measure of performance), improves the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing public and makes comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful. Management believes that, by excluding gains or losses
related to sales of previously depreciated real estate assets, real estate asset depreciation and amortization and impairment write-downs taken on previously depreciated real estate, investors and analysts are able to identify the operating results
of the long-term assets that form the core of a REIT’s activity and assist in comparing these operating results between periods or to those of different companies. 
  41 


Table of Contents
The following table shows a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common
stockholders and participating securities to the calculation of FFO available to common stockholders and participating securities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(In thousands except per share data)
 


  



 



 




 Net Loss Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders and Participating Securities
  
$
(27,010
) 
 
$
(222,498
) 
 
$
(13,783
) 

 Adjustments:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and Other Amortization of Real Estate
  
 
120,178
  
 
 
123,323
  
 
 
129,679
  

 Depreciation and Other Amortization of Real Estate Included in Discontinued Operations
  
 
2,145
  
 
 
11,273
  
 
 
17,992
  

 Company Share of Joint Venture Depreciation and Other Amortization
  
 
551
  
 
 
947
  
 
 
4,994
  

 Impairment of Depreciated Real Estate
  
 
(1,687
) 
 
 
90,204
  
 
 
5,617
  

 Impairment of Depreciated Real Estate Included in Discontinued Operations
  
 
6,146
  
 
 
81,648
  
 
 
1,317
  

 Gain on Sale of Depreciated Real Estate
  
 
(20,419
) 
 
 
(11,073
) 
 
 
(24,231
) 

 Company Share of Joint Venture Gain on Sale of Depreciated Real Estate
  
 
(616
) 
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
(74
) 

 Gain on Change in Control of Interests
  
 
(689
) 
 



 




 Noncontrolling Interest Share of Adjustments
  
 
(6,448
) 
 
 
(23,067
) 
 
 
(13,759
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funds from Operations Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders and Participating
Securities
  
$
72,151
  
 
$
50,526
  
 
$
107,752
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Subsequent Events  From January 1, 2012 to February 28, 2012, we acquired one industrial property comprising approximately 0.4 million square feet of GLA in connection with the purchase of the 85% equity interest in one
property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture. The acquisition was funded through the assumption of a mortgage loan in the amount of $12.0 million, which was subsequently paid off at closing and a cash payment of $8.3
million. We will account for this transaction as a step acquisition utilizing the purchase method of accounting. There were no industrial properties sold during this time.  From January 1, 2012 to February 28, 2012, we repurchased and retired $0.4 million of our senior unsecured notes maturing in 2028 for a payment of $0.4 million. 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
Response to this item is included in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” above.  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule included in Item 15. 
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 None. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports pursuant to the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required financial disclosure.  We carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of
the period covered by this report.  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Our management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011. In making its assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management used the criteria described in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.  Our management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting
was effective.  The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein within Item 15. See Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.  Item 9B. Other Information
 On February 27, 2012, the Company, in its capacity as the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and owner of
greater than 90% of all Units, amended and restated the Eleventh Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership, effective March 17, 2012, in order to permit a merger of the Operating Partnership to be authorized
by the vote of a majority of Units, make technical amendments of the agreement’s Unit issuance and general partnership interest transfer and succession provisions in the event of certain Company transactions and to expand the notice
requirements under the agreement in the event of an amendment. The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Twelfth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership, which is attached
hereto as Exhibit 10.1, to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  43 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 






Item 10, 11, 12, 13 and 
14.
  
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, Executive Compensation, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence and Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 The information required by Item 10, Item 11, Item 12, Item 13 and Item 14 is
hereby incorporated or furnished, solely to the extent required by such item, from the Company’s definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the end of the Company’s fiscal year.
Information from the Company’s definitive proxy statement shall not be deemed to be “filed” or “soliciting material,” or subject to liability for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to the
maximum extent permitted under the Exchange Act. 
  44 


Table of Contents
PART IV  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits  
(1 & 2) See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule. 
(3) Exhibits:    






 Exhibits
  
 Description




  3.1
  
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1996,
File No. 1-13102)




  3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, dated September 4, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 of the Company’s Form 8-K, dated September 4, 1997, as filed on
September 29, 1997, File No. 1-13102)




  3.3
  
Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, dated June 20, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal
quarter ended June 30, 1996, File No. 1-13102)




  3.4
  
Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, dated May 31, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal
quarter ended June 30, 1996, File No. 1-13102)




  3.5
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s 6.236% Series F Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  3.6
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s 7.236% Series G Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  3.7
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s Junior Participating Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of Form S-3 of the
Company and First Industrial, L.P. dated September 24, 1997, Registration No. 333-29879)




  3.8
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s 7.25% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
Form 8-K of the Company filed January 17, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  3.9
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s 7.25% Series K Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.6 of the
Form 8-A of the Company, as filed on August 18, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  3.10
  
Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, dated May 12, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed June 2,
2011, File No. 1-13102)




  4.1
  
Deposit Agreement, dated May 27, 2004, by and among the Company, EquiServe Inc. and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. and holders from time to time of Series F Depositary Receipts
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13102)
  45 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
  
 Description




  4.2
  
Deposit Agreement, dated May 27, 2004, by and among the Company, EquiServe Inc. and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. and holders from time to time of Series G Depositary Receipts
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  4.3
  
Remarketing Agreement, dated May 27, 2004, relating to 50,000 depositary shares, each representing 1/100 of a share of the Series F Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
by and among Lehman Brothers Inc., the Company and First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 of the Form 8-K of the Company, dated May 27, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  4.4
  
Remarketing Agreement, dated May 27,2004, relating to 25,000 depositary shares, each representing 1/100 of a share of the Series G Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, by
and among Lehman Brothers Inc., the Company and First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.3 of the Form 8-K of the Company, dated May 27, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  4.5
  
Deposit Agreement, dated January 13,2006, by and among the Company, Computershare Shareholder Services, Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as depositary, and holders
from time to time of Series J Depositary Receipts (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company, filed January 17, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  4.6
  
Deposit Agreement, dated August 21, 2006, by and among the Company, Computershare Shareholder Services, Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as depositary, and holders from
time to time of Series K Depositary Receipts (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.7 of the Form 8-A of the Company, as filed on August 18, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  4.7
  
Indenture, dated as of May 13, 1997,between First Industrial, L.P. and First Trust National Association, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 10-Q of the
Company for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1997, as amended by Form 10-Q/A No. 1 of the Company filed May 30, 1997, File No. 1-13102)




  4.8
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of May 13, 1997, between First Industrial, L.P. and First Trust National Association as Trustee relating to $100 million of 7.15% Notes
due 2027 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1997, as amended by Form 10-Q/A No. 1 of the Company filed May 30, 1997, File No. 1-13102)




  4.9
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated October 28, 1997 between First Industrial, L.P. and First Trust National Association providing for the issuance of Medium-Term Notes due Nine
Months or more from Date of Issue (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P., dated November 3, 1997, as filed November 3, 1997, File No. 333-21873)




  4.10
  
7.50% Medium-Term Note due 2017 in principal amount of $100 million issued by First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.19 of the Company’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, File No. 1-13102)




  4.11
  
Trust Agreement, dated as of May 16, 1997, between First Industrial, L.P. and First Bank National Association, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Form 10-Q
of First Industrial, L.P. for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1997, File No. 333-21873)




  4.12
  
7.60% Notes due 2028 in principal amount of $200 million issued by First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P.
dated July 15, 1998, File No. 333-21873)




  4.13
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of July 14, 1998, between First Industrial, L.P. and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, relating to First Industrial, L.P.’s
7.60% Notes due July 15, 2028 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P. dated July 15, 1998, File No. 333-21873)
  46 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
  
 Description




  4.14
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 7 dated as of April 15, 2002, between First Industrial, L.P. and U.S. Bank National Association, relating to First Industrial, L.P.’s
6.875% Notes due 2012 and 7.75% Notes due 2032 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P. dated April 4, 2002, File No. 333-21873)




  4.15
  
Form of 6.875% Notes due in 2012 in the principal amount of $200 million issued by First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 8-K of First
Industrial, L.P., dated April 4, 2002, File No. 333-21873)




  4.16
  
Form of 7.75% Notes due 2032 in the principal amount of $50.0 million issued by First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Form 8-K of First
Industrial, L.P., dated April 4, 2002, File No. 333-21873)




  4.17
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of May 17, 2004, relating to 6.42% Senior Notes due June 1, 2014, by and between First Industrial, L.P. and U.S. Bank National
Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P., dated May 27, 2004, File No. 333-21873)




  4.18
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of January 10, 2006, relating to 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016, by and between the Operating Partnership and U.S. Bank National
Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company, filed January 11, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  4.19
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of May 7, 2007, relating to 5.95% Senior Notes due 2017, by and between the Operating Partnership and U.S. Bank National Association
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company, filed May 5, 2007, File No. 1-13102)




10.1*
  
Twelfth Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement of First Industrial, L.P. dated February 27, 2012 and effective March 17, 2012 (the “LP Agreement”).




10.2
  
Sales Agreement by and among the Company, First Industrial, L.P. and Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. dated September 16, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the Form 8-K
of the Company, dated September 16, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




10.3
  
Non-Competition Agreement between Jay H. Shidler and First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-13102)




10.4
  
Form of Non-Competition Agreement between each of Michael T. Tomasz, Paul T. Lambert, Michael J. Havala, Michael W. Brennan, Michael G. Damone, Duane H. Lund, and Johannson L. Yap
and First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-11, File No. 33-77804)




10.5†
  
1994 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No.
1-13102)




10.6†
  
First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. Deferred Income Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996, File
No. 1-13102)




10.7
  
Contribution Agreement, dated March 19, 1996, among FR Acquisitions, Inc. and the parties listed on the signature pages thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Form 8-K of the Company, dated April 3, 1996, File No. 1-13102)




10.8
  
Contribution Agreement, dated January 31, 1997, among FR Acquisitions, Inc. and the parties listed on the signature pages thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.58 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 1-13102)
  47 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
  
 Description




10.9†
  
Separation and Release Agreement between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Michael W. Brennan dated November 26, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form
8-K of the Company filed November 28, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.10†
  
1997 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.62 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No.
1-13102)




10.11†
  
2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, File No.
1-13102)




10.12†
  
Separation and Release Agreement between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Michael J. Havala dated December 22, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K
of the Company filed December 23, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.13†
  
Employment Agreement, dated March 31, 2002, between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Johannson L. Yap (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 10-Q of First
Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2002, File No. 1-13102)




10.14†
  
Separation and Release Agreement between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and David P. Draft dated November 25, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of
the Company filed November 28, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.15†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
1-13102)




10.16†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
1-13102)




10.17†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
1-13102)




10.18†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
1-13102)




10.19
  
Unsecured Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of December 14, 2011 among First Industrial, L.P., First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and the other lenders
thereunder (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed December 15, 2011, File No. 1-13102)




10.20†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (Director’s Annual Retainer) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed May 19, 2006, File No.
1-13102)




10.21†
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30,
2006, File No. 1-13102)




10.22†
  
Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30,
2007, File No. 1-13102)




10.23†
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007, File No. 1-13102)




10.24†
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s 1997 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007, File No. 1-13102)
  48 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
  
 Description




10.25†
  
Form of Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,
File No. 1-13102)




10.26†
  
Form of Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,
File No. 1-13102)




10.27†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,
File No. 1-13102)




10.28†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,
File No. 1-13102)




10.29†
  
Amendment No. 3 to the Company’s 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended March
31, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.30†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008,
File No. 1-13102)




10.31†
  
First Amendment, dated as of December 29, 2008, to Employment Agreement, dated March 31, 2002, between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Johannson L. Yap (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.33 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.32†
  
Employment Agreement dated as of January 9, 2009 among First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., First Industrial L.P. and Bruce W. Duncan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
the Form 8-K of the Company filed January 12, 2009, File No. 1-13102)




10.33†
  
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement dated as of January 9, 2009 between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Bruce W. Duncan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
Form 8-K of the Company filed January 12, 2009, File No. 1-13102)




10.34†
  
2009 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009, File No. 1-13102)




10.35†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed July 15, 2009, File No.
1-13102)




10.36†
  
Amendment No. 1, dated as of February 5, 2009, to the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, dated as of January 9, 2009, by and between First Industrial Realty Trust,
Inc. and Bruce W. Duncan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2009, File No. 1-13102)




10.37†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed March 4, 2010, File No. 1-13102)




10.38
  
Distribution Agreement among the First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., First Industrial, L.P. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. dated May 4, 2010 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed May 4, 2010, File No. 1-13102)




10.39†
  
Form of Employee Service Based Bonus Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed July 7, 2010, File No.
1-13102)
  49 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
 
 Description




10.40†
 
Form of Employee Service Based Bonus Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed July 13, 2011, File No. 1-13102)




10.41†
 
2011 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 2, 2011, File No. 1-13102)




10.42†
 
Amendment No. 1 to 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, dated April 28, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed on April 28,
2011, File No. 1-13102)




10.43
 
Distribution Agreement among the Company, First Industrial, L.P. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC dated February 28, 2011(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Form 8-K of the Company filed on February 28, 2011, File No. 1-13102)




21.1*
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant




23*
 
Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP




31.1*
 
Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended




31.2*
 
Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended




32**
 
Certification of the Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002




101.1*
 
The following financial statements from First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form0 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL: (i)
Consolidated Balance Sheets (audited), (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations (audited), (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (audited), (iv) Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity (audited), (v)
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (audited) and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (audited).
  


*
Filed herewith. 


**
Furnished herewith. 


†
Indicates a compensatory plan or arrangement contemplated by Item 15 a (3) of Form 10-K. 
  50 


Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






 Exhibits
  
 Description




  3.1
  
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1996,
File No. 1-13102)




  3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, dated September 4, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 of the Company’s Form 8-K, dated September 4, 1997, as filed on
September 29, 1997, File No. 1-13102)




  3.3
  
Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, dated June 20, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal
quarter ended June 30, 1996, File No. 1-13102)




  3.4
  
Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, dated May 31, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal
quarter ended June 30, 1996, File No. 1-13102)




  3.5
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s 6.236% Series F Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  3.6
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s 7.236% Series G Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  3.7
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s Junior Participating Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of Form S-3 of the
Company and First Industrial, L.P. dated September 24, 1997, Registration No. 333-29879)




  3.8
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s 7.25% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
Form 8-K of the Company filed January 17, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  3.9
  
Articles Supplementary relating to the Company’s 7.25% Series K Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.6 of the
Form 8-A of the Company, as filed on August 18, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  3.10
  
Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, dated May 12, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed June 2,
2011, File No. 1-13102)




  4.1
  
Deposit Agreement, dated May 27, 2004, by and among the Company, EquiServe Inc. and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. and holders from time to time of Series F Depositary Receipts
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  4.2
  
Deposit Agreement, dated May 27, 2004, by and among the Company, EquiServe Inc. and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. and holders from time to time of Series G Depositary Receipts
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  4.3
  
Remarketing Agreement, dated May 27,2004, relating to 50,000 depositary shares, each representing 1/100 of a share of the Series F Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, by
and among Lehman Brothers Inc., the Company and First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 of the Form 8-K of the Company, dated May 27, 2004, File No.
1-13102)
  51 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
  
 Description




  4.4
  
Remarketing Agreement, dated May 27,2004, relating to 25,000 depositary shares, each representing 1/100 of a share of the Series G Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, by
and among Lehman Brothers Inc., the Company and First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.3 of the Form 8-K of the Company, dated May 27, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




  4.5
  
Deposit Agreement, dated January 13,2006, by and among the Company, Computershare Shareholder Services, Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as depositary, and holders from
time to time of Series J Depositary Receipts (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company, filed January 17, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  4.6
  
Deposit Agreement, dated August 21, 2006, by and among the Company, Computershare Shareholder Services, Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as depositary, and holders from
time to time of Series K Depositary Receipts (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.7 of the Form 8-A of the Company, as filed on August 18, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  4.7
  
Indenture, dated as of May 13, 1997,between First Industrial, L.P. and First Trust National Association, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 10-Q of the
Company for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1997, as amended by Form 10-Q/A No. 1 of the Company filed May 30, 1997, File No. 1-13102)




  4.8
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of May 13, 1997, between First Industrial, L.P. and First Trust National Association as Trustee relating to $100 million of
7.15% Notes due 2027 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1997, as amended by Form 10-Q/A No. 1 of the Company filed May 30, 1997, File No.
1-13102)




  4.9
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated October 28, 1997 between First Industrial, L.P. and First Trust National Association providing for the issuance of Medium-Term Notes due Nine
Months or more from Date of Issue (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P., dated November 3, 1997, as filed November 3, 1997, File No. 333-21873)




  4.10
  
7.50% Medium-Term Note due 2017 in principal amount of $100 million issued by First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.19 of the Company’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, File No. 1-13102)




  4.11
  
Trust Agreement, dated as of May 16, 1997, between First Industrial, L.P. and First Bank National Association, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Form 10-Q
of First Industrial, L.P. for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1997, File No. 333-21873)




  4.12
  
7.60% Notes due 2028 in principal amount of $200 million issued by First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P.
dated July 15, 1998, File No. 333-21873)




  4.13
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of July 14, 1998, between First Industrial, L.P. and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, relating to First Industrial, L.P.’s
7.60% Notes due July 15, 2028 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P. dated July 15, 1998, File No. 333-21873)




  4.14
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 7 dated as of April 15, 2002, between First Industrial, L.P. and U.S. Bank National Association, relating to First Industrial, L.P.’s
6.875% Notes due 2012 and 7.75% Notes due 2032 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P. dated April 4, 2002, File No. 333-21873)




  4.15
  
Form of 6.875% Notes due in 2012 in the principal amount of $200 million issued by First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 8-K of First
Industrial, L.P., dated April 4, 2002, File No. 333-21873)
  52 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
  
 Description




  4.16
  
Form of 7.75% Notes due 2032 in the principal amount of $50.0 million issued by First Industrial, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Form 8-K of First
Industrial, L.P., dated April 4, 2002, File No. 333-21873)




  4.17
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of May 17, 2004, relating to 6.42% Senior Notes due June 1, 2014, by and between First Industrial, L.P. and U.S. Bank National
Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of First Industrial, L.P., dated May 27, 2004, File No. 333-21873)




  4.18
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of January 10, 2006, relating to 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016, by and between the Operating Partnership and U.S. Bank National
Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company, filed January 11, 2006, File No. 1-13102)




  4.19
  
Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of May 7, 2007, relating to 5.95% Senior Notes due 2017, by and between the Operating Partnership and U.S. Bank National Association
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company, filed May 5, 2007, File No. 1-13102)




10.1*
  
Twelfth Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement of First Industrial, L.P. dated February 27, 2012 and effective March 17, 2012 (the “LP Agreement”).




10.2
  
Sales Agreement by and among the Company, First Industrial, L.P. and Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. dated September 16, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the Form
8-K of the Company, dated September 16, 2004, File No. 1-13102)




10.3
  
Non-Competition Agreement between Jay H. Shidler and First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-13102)




10.4
  
Form of Non-Competition Agreement between each of Michael T. Tomasz, Paul T. Lambert, Michael J. Havala, Michael W. Brennan, Michael G. Damone, Duane H. Lund, and Johannson L. Yap
and First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-11, File No. 33-77804)




10.5†
  
1994 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No.
1-13102)




10.6†
  
First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. Deferred Income Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996, File
No. 1-13102)




10.7
  
Contribution Agreement, dated March 19, 1996, among FR Acquisitions, Inc. and the parties listed on the signature pages thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Form 8-K of the Company, dated April 3, 1996, File No. 1-13102)




10.8
  
Contribution Agreement, dated January 31, 1997, among FR Acquisitions, Inc. and the parties listed on the signature pages thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.58 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 1-13102)




10.9†
  
Separation and Release Agreement between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Michael W. Brennan dated November 26, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form
8-K of the Company filed November 28, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.10†
  
1997 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.62 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No.
1-13102)




10.11†
  
2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, File No.
1-13102)
  53 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
  
 Description




10.12†
  
Separation and Release Agreement between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Michael J. Havala dated December 22, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K
of the Company filed December 23, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.13†
  
Employment Agreement, dated March 31, 2002, between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Johannson L. Yap (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 10-Q of First
Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2002, File No. 1-13102)




10.14†
  
Separation and Release Agreement between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and David P. Draft dated November 25, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of
the Company filed November 28, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.15†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
1-13102)




10.16†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
1-13102)




10.17†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
1-13102)




10.18†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
1-13102)




10.19
  
Unsecured Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of December 14, 2011 among First Industrial, L.P., First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and the other lenders
thereunder (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed December 15, 2011, File No. 1-13102)




10.20†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (Director’s Annual Retainer) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed May 19, 2006, File No.
1-13102)




10.21†
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended June 30,
2006, File No. 1-13102)




10.22†
  
Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended
June 30, 2007, File No. 1-13102)




10.23†
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007, File No. 1-13102)




10.24†
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s 1997 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007, File No. 1-13102)




10.25†
  
Form of Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,
File No. 1-13102)




10.26†
  
Form of Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,
File No. 1-13102)
  54 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
  
 Description




10.27†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,
File No. 1-13102)




10.28†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,
File No. 1-13102)




10.29†
  
Amendment No. 3 to the Company’s 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended March
31, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.30†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008,
File No. 1-13102)




10.31†
  
First Amendment, dated as of December 29, 2008, to Employment Agreement, dated March 31, 2002, between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Johannson L. Yap (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.33 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, File No. 1-13102)




10.32†
  
Employment Agreement dated as of January 9, 2009 among First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., First Industrial L.P. and Bruce W. Duncan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
the Form 8-K of the Company filed January 12, 2009, File No. 1-13102)




10.33†
  
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement dated as of January 9, 2009 between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and Bruce W. Duncan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
Form 8-K of the Company filed January 12, 2009, File No. 1-13102)




10.34†
  
2009 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009, File No. 1-13102)




10.35†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed July 15, 2009, File No.
1-13102)




10.36†
  
Amendment No. 1, dated as of February 5, 2009, to the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, dated as of January 9, 2009, by and between First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and
Bruce W. Duncan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2009, File No. 1-13102)




10.37†
  
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed March 4, 2010, File No. 1-13102)




10.38
  
Distribution Agreement among the First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., First Industrial, L.P. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. dated May 4, 2010 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed May 4, 2010, File No. 1-13102)




10.39†
  
Form of Employee Service Based Bonus Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed July 7, 2010, File No. 1-13102)




10.40†
  
Form of Employee Service Based Bonus Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed July 13, 2011, File No. 1-13102)




10.41†
  
2011 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 2, 2011, File No. 1-13102)




10.42†
  
Amendment No. 1 to 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, dated April 28, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K of the Company filed on April 28,
2011, File No. 1-13102)
  55 


Table of Contents






 Exhibits
 
 Description




10.43
 
Distribution Agreement among the Company, First Industrial, L.P. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC dated February 28, 2011(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Form 8-K of the Company filed on February 28, 2011, File No. 1-13102)




21.1*
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant




23*
 
Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP




31.1*
 
Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended




31.2*
 
Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended




32**
 
Certification of the Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002




101.1
 
The following financial statements from First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL: (i)
Consolidated Balance Sheets (audited), (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations (audited), (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (audited), (iv) Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity (audited), (v)
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (audited) and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (audited).(1)
  


*
Filed herewith. 


**
Furnished herewith. 


†
Indicates a compensatory plan or arrangement contemplated by Item 15 a (3) of Form 10-K. 


(1)
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TEMPORARY HARDSHIP EXEMPTION PROVIDED BY RULE 201 OF REGULATION S-T, THE DATE BY WHICH THE INTERACTIVE DATA FILE IS REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED HAS
BEEN EXTENDED BY SIX BUSINESS DAYS. 
  56 


Table of Contents
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 
 








 
  
Page
 

 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
58
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets of First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (the “Company”) as of December 31,
 2011 and 2010
  
 
59
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations of the Company for the Years Ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
60
  

 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income of the Company for the Years Ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
61
  

 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity of the Company for the Years Ended December 31,
 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
62
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the Company for the Years Ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
63
  

 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
64
  

 FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
  




 Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
  
 
S-1
  

  57 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.:  In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a) (1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) at December 31, 2011
and 2010 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our
opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to
express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   




/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 29, 2012

  58 


Table of Contents
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 
 
(In thousands except share and per share data)
 

ASSETS
 



 




 Assets:
 



 




 Investment in Real Estate:
 



 




 Land
 
$
638,071
  
 
$
554,829
  

 Buildings and Improvements
 
 
2,326,245
  
 
 
2,061,266
  

 Construction in Progress
 
 
27,780
  
 
 
2,672
  

 Less: Accumulated Depreciation
 
 
(658,729
) 
 
 
(509,634
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Investment in Real Estate
 
 
2,333,367
  
 
 
2,109,133
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Real Estate and Other Assets Held for Sale, Net of Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of $39,413 and
$165,211
 
 
91,659
  
 
 
392,291
  

 Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
 
10,153
  
 
 
25,963
  

 Restricted Cash
 
 
—  
  
 
 
117
  

 Tenant Accounts Receivable, Net
 
 
3,062
  
 
 
3,064
  

 Investments in Joint Ventures
 
 
1,674
  
 
 
2,451
  

 Deferred Rent Receivable, Net
 
 
50,033
  
 
 
37,878
  

 Deferred Financing Costs, Net
 
 
15,244
  
 
 
15,351
  

 Deferred Leasing Intangibles, Net
 
 
38,037
  
 
 
39,718
  

 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Net
 
 
123,428
  
 
 
124,088
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Assets
 
$
2,666,657
  
 
$
2,750,054
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 



 




 Liabilities:
 



 




 Indebtedness:
 



 




 Mortgage and Other Loans Payable, Net
 
$
690,256
  
 
$
486,055
  

 Senior Unsecured Debt, Net
 
 
640,227
  
 
 
879,529
  

 Unsecured Credit Facility
 
 
149,000
  
 
 
376,184
  

 Mortgage Loan Payable on Real Estate Held for Sale, Net, Inclusive of $0 and $6 of Accrued Interest
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,014
  

 Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities, Net
 
 
71,470
  
 
 
67,326
  

 Deferred Leasing Intangibles, Net
 
 
16,567
  
 
 
18,519
  

 Rents Received in Advance and Security Deposits
 
 
25,852
  
 
 
27,367
  

 Leasing Intangibles Held for Sale, Net of Accumulated Amortization of $415 and $2,668
 
 
690
  
 
 
1,916
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities
 
 
1,594,062
  
 
 
1,857,910
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and Contingencies
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Equity:
 



 




 First Industrial Realty Trust Inc.’s Stockholders’ Equity:
 



 




 Preferred Stock ($0.01 par value, 10,000,000 shares authorized, 500, 250, 600, and 200 shares of Series F, G,
J, and K Cumulative Preferred Stock, respectively, issued and outstanding, having a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share ($50,000), $100,000 per share ($25,000), $250,000 per share ($150,000), and $250,000 per share ($50,000),
respectively)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common Stock ($0.01 par value, 150,000,000 and 100,000,000 shares authorized; 91,131,516 and 73,165,410 shares
issued; and 86,807,402 and 68,841,296 shares outstanding)
 
 
911
  
 
 
732
  

 Additional Paid-in-Capital
 
 
1,811,349
  
 
 
1,608,014
  

 Distributions in Excess of Accumulated Earnings
 
 
(633,854
) 
 
 
(606,511
) 

 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
 
 
(11,712
) 
 
 
(15,339
) 

 Treasury Shares at Cost (4,324,114 shares)
 
 
(140,018
) 
 
 
(140,018
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Stockholders’ Equity
 
 
1,026,676
  
 
 
846,878
  

 Noncontrolling Interest
 
 
45,919
  
 
 
45,266
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Equity
 
 
1,072,595
  
 
 
892,144
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities and Equity
 
$
2,666,657
  
 
$
2,750,054
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 
  59 


Table of Contents
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
















 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2011
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2010
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2009
 

 
 
(In thousands except per share data)
 

 Revenues:
 



 



 




 Rental Income
 
$
243,478
  
 
$
242,213
  
 
$
246,027
  

 Tenant Recoveries and Other Income
 
 
74,357
  
 
 
78,696
  
 
 
83,588
  

 Construction Revenues
 
 
—  
  
 
 
869
  
 
 
54,957
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Revenues
 
 
317,835
  
 
 
321,778
  
 
 
384,572
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
 



 



 




 Property Expenses
 
 
108,590
  
 
 
108,651
  
 
 
111,280
  

 General and Administrative
 
 
20,638
  
 
 
26,589
  
 
 
37,835
  

 Restructuring Costs
 
 
1,553
  
 
 
1,858
  
 
 
7,806
  

 Impairment of Real Estate
 
 
(8,807
) 
 
 
112,904
  
 
 
5,617
  

 Depreciation and Other Amortization
 
 
121,604
  
 
 
125,298
  
 
 
131,871
  

 Construction Expenses
 
 
—  
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
52,720
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Expenses
 
 
243,578
  
 
 
375,807
  
 
 
347,129
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other Income (Expense):
 



 



 




 Interest Income
 
 
3,922
  
 
 
4,364
  
 
 
3,084
  

 Interest Expense
 
 
(100,127
) 
 
 
(105,898
) 
 
 
(114,768
) 

 Amortization of Deferred Financing Costs
 
 
(3,963
) 
 
 
(3,473
) 
 
 
(3,030
) 

 Mark-to-Market (Loss) Gain on Interest Rate Protection Agreements
 
 
(1,718
) 
 
 
(1,107
) 
 
 
3,667
  

 (Loss) Gain From Retirement of Debt
 
 
(5,459
) 
 
 
(4,304
) 
 
 
34,562
  

 Foreign Currency Exchange Loss
 
 
(332
) 
 
 
(190
) 
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Other Income (Expense)
 
 
(107,677
) 
 
 
(110,608
) 
 
 
(76,485
) 

 Loss from Continuing Operations Before Equity in Income (Loss) of Joint Ventures, Gain on Sale of Joint Venture Interests, Gain
on Change in Control of Interests and Income Tax (Provision) Benefit
 
 
(33,420
) 
 
 
(164,637
) 
 
 
(39,042
) 

 Equity in Income (Loss) of Joint Ventures
 
 
980
  
 
 
675
  
 
 
(6,470
) 

 Gain on Sale of Joint Venture Interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11,226
  
 
 
—  
  

 Gain on Change in Control of Interests
 
 
689
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Income Tax (Provision) Benefit
 
 
(450
) 
 
 
(2,963
) 
 
 
25,185
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from Continuing Operations
 
 
(32,201
) 
 
 
(155,699
) 
 
 
(20,327
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued Operations:
 



 



 




 Income (Loss) Attributable to Discontinued Operations
 
 
2,920
  
 
 
(77,529
) 
 
 
1,922
  

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate
 
 
20,419
  
 
 
11,092
  
 
 
24,206
  

 Provision for Income Taxes Allocable to Discontinued Operations
 
 
(1,246
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,846
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Discontinued Operations
 
 
22,093
  
 
 
(66,437
) 
 
 
24,282
  

 (Loss) Income Before Gain on Sale of Real Estate
 
 
(10,108
) 
 
 
(222,136
) 
 
 
3,955
  

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate
 
 
1,370
  
 
 
859
  
 
 
374
  

 Provision for Income Taxes Allocable to Gain on Sale of Real Estate
 
 
(452
) 
 
 
(342
) 
 
 
(143
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (Loss) Income
 
 
(9,190
) 
 
 
(221,619
) 
 
 
4,186
  

 Less: Net Loss Attributable to the Noncontrolling Interest
 
 
1,745
  
 
 
18,798
  
 
 
1,547
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (Loss) Income Attributable to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.
 
 
(7,445
) 
 
 
(202,821
) 
 
 
5,733
  

 Less: Preferred Dividends
 
 
(19,565
) 
 
 
(19,677
) 
 
 
(19,516
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders and Participating Securities
 
$
(27,010
) 
 
$
(222,498
) 
 
$
(13,783
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share:
 



 



 




 Loss from Continuing Operations Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders
 
$
(0.59
) 
 
$
(2.56
) 
 
$
(0.73
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common
Stockholders
 
$
0.26
  
 
$
(0.97
) 
 
$
0.45
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders and Participating Securities
 
$
(0.34
) 
 
$
(3.53
) 
 
$
(0.28
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Distributions Per Share
 
$
0.00
  
 
$
0.00
  
 
$
0.00
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding
 
 
80,616
  
 
 
62,953
  
 
 
48,695
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 
  60 


Table of Contents
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
















 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2011
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2010
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in thousands)
 

 Net (Loss) Income
  
$
(9,190
) 
 
$
(221,619
) 
 
$
4,186
  

 Mark-to-Market on Interest Rate Protection Agreements, Net of Income Tax Provision
  
 
—  
  
 
 
990
  
 
 
(383
) 

 Amortization of Interest Rate Protection Agreements
  
 
2,166
  
 
 
2,108
  
 
 
796
  

 Write-off of Unamortized Settlement Amounts of Interest Rate Protection Agreements
  
 
3,250
  
 
 
(182
) 
 
 
523
  

 Reclassification of Foreign Exchange Loss on Substantial Liquidation of Foreign Entities, Net of Income Tax
Benefit
  
 
179
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment, Net of Income Tax (Provision) Benefit
  
 
(1,480
) 
 
 
563
  
 
 
1,503
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive (Loss) Income
  
 
(5,075
) 
 
 
(218,140
) 
 
 
6,625
  

 Comprehensive Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest
  
 
1,494
  
 
 
18,527
  
 
 
1,299
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive (Loss) Income Attributable to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.
  
$
(3,581
) 
 
$
(199,613
) 
 
$
7,924
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 
  61 


Table of Contents
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 




































 
 
PreferredStock
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
TreasurySharesAt Cost
 
 
Distributionsin Excess
ofEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 
 
NoncontrollingInterest
 
 
Total
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2008
 
$
—  
  
 
$
490
  
 
$
1,398,024
  
 
$
(140,018
) 
 
$
(370,229
) 
 
$
(19,668
) 
 
$
122,117
  
 
$
990,716
  

 Issuance of Common Stock, Net of Issuance Costs
 
 
—  
  
 
 
169
  
 
 
83,626
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
83,795
  

 Stock Based Compensation Activity
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
12,662
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,660
  

 Conversion of Units to Common Stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
7,813
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7,817
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Reallocation—Additional Paid in Capital
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
49,126
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(49,126
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of Equity Component of Exchangeable Note
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(33
) 

 Preferred Dividends
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,516
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,516
) 

 Net Income (Loss)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,733
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,547
) 
 
 
4,186
  

 Reallocation—Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(931
) 
 
 
931
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,191
  
 
 
248
  
 
 
2,439
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2009
 
$
—  
  
 
$
662
  
 
$
1,551,218
  
 
$
(140,018
) 
 
$
(384,013
) 
 
$
(18,408
) 
 
$
64,806
  
 
$
1,074,247
  

 Issuance of Common Stock, Net of Issuance Costs
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
49,909
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
49,973
  

 Stock Based Compensation Activity
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5,736
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,741
  

 Conversion of Units to Common Stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(316
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Reallocation—Additional Paid in Capital
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
836
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(836
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Preferred Dividends
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,677
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,677
) 

 Net Loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(202,821
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,798
) 
 
 
(221,619
) 

 Reallocation—Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(139
) 
 
 
139
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,208
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
3,479
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2010
 
$
—  
  
 
$
732
  
 
$
1,608,014
  
 
$
(140,018
) 
 
$
(606,511
) 
 
$
(15,339
) 
 
$
45,266
  
 
$
892,144
  

 Issuance of Common Stock, Net of Issuance Costs
 
 
—  
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
202,158
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
202,332
  

 Stock Based Compensation Activity
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
3,088
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(333
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,759
  

 Conversion of Units to Common Stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,109
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Reallocation—Additional Paid in Capital
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,019
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,019
  
 
 
—  
  

 Preferred Dividends
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,565
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,565
) 

 Net Loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7,445
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,745
) 
 
 
(9,190
) 

 Reallocation—Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(237
) 
 
 
237
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,864
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
4,115
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2011
 
$
—  
  
 
$
911
  
 
$
1,811,349
  
 
$
(140,018
) 
 
$
(633,854
) 
 
$
(11,712
) 
 
$
45,919
  
 
$
1,072,595
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 
  62 


Table of Contents
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2011
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2010
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2009
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Net (Loss) Income
  
$
(9,190
) 
 
$
(221,619
) 
 
$
4,186
  

 Adjustments to Reconcile Net (Loss) Income to Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation
  
 
95,931
  
 
 
104,175
  
 
 
112,241
  

 Amortization of Deferred Financing Costs
  
 
3,963
  
 
 
3,473
  
 
 
3,030
  

 Other Amortization
  
 
36,390
  
 
 
41,024
  
 
 
52,646
  

 Impairment of Real Estate, Net
  
 
(2,661
) 
 
 
194,552
  
 
 
6,934
  

 Provision for Bad Debt
  
 
1,110
  
 
 
1,880
  
 
 
3,259
  

 Equity in (Income) Loss of Joint Ventures
  
 
(980
) 
 
 
(675
) 
 
 
6,470
  

 Distributions from Joint Ventures
  
 
1,033
  
 
 
3,032
  
 
 
2,319
  

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate
  
 
(21,789
) 
 
 
(11,951
) 
 
 
(24,580
) 

 Gain on Sale of Joint Venture Interests
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(11,226
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Gain on Change in Control of Interests
  
 
(689
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Loss (Gain) on Retirement of Debt
  
 
5,459
  
 
 
4,304
  
 
 
(34,562
) 

 Prepayment Premiums Associated with Retirement of Debt
  
 
(1,268
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Mark-to-Market Loss (Gain) on Interest Rate Protection Agreements
  
 
1,718
  
 
 
1,107
  
 
 
(3,667
) 

 Decrease in Developments for Sale Costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
812
  

 (Increase) Decrease in Tenant Accounts Receivable, Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Net
  
 
(2,933
) 
 
 
(1,580
) 
 
 
51,641
  

 Increase in Deferred Rent Receivable
  
 
(7,733
) 
 
 
(7,041
) 
 
 
(8,350
) 

 Decrease in Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses, Other Liabilities, Rents Received in Advance and Security
Deposits
  
 
(5,684
) 
 
 
(9,411
) 
 
 
(27,631
) 

 Decrease (Increase) in Restricted Cash
  
 
117
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
7
  

 Payments of Premiums and Discounts Associated with Senior Unsecured Notes
  
 
(5,260
) 
 
 
(6,840
) 
 
 
(2,576
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
  
 
87,534
  
 
 
83,189
  
 
 
142,179
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Purchases of and Additions to Investment in Real Estate and Lease Costs
  
 
(90,524
) 
 
 
(89,736
) 
 
 
(75,947
) 

 Net Proceeds from Sales of Investments in Real Estate
  
 
75,953
  
 
 
68,046
  
 
 
74,982
  

 Contributions to and Investments in Joint Ventures
  
 
(155
) 
 
 
(777
) 
 
 
(3,742
) 

 Distributions and Sales Proceeds from Joint Venture Interests
  
 
650
  
 
 
11,519
  
 
 
6,333
  

 Repayment of Notes Receivable
  
 
10,394
  
 
 
1,460
  
 
 
3,151
  

 Increase in Lender Escrows
  
 
(97
) 
 
 
(435
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities
  
 
(3,779
) 
 
 
(9,923
) 
 
 
4,777
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Debt and Equity Issuance Costs
  
 
(7,162
) 
 
 
(4,544
) 
 
 
(8,322
) 

 Proceeds from the Issuance of Common Stock, Net of Underwriter’s Discount
  
 
202,845
  
 
 
50,087
  
 
 
84,465
  

 Repurchase and Retirement of Restricted Stock
  
 
(1,001
) 
 
 
(298
) 
 
 
(739
) 

 Payments on Interest Rate Swap Agreement
  
 
(489
) 
 
 
(450
) 
 
 
(320
) 

 Settlement of Interest Rate Protection Agreements
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7,491
) 

 Repayments of Senior Unsecured Notes
  
 
(234,307
) 
 
 
(259,018
) 
 
 
(336,196
) 

 Dividends/Distributions
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(12,614
) 

 Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
(15,254
) 
 
 
(19,677
) 
 
 
(20,296
) 

 Repayments on Mortgage and Other Loans Payable
  
 
(71,983
) 
 
 
(20,872
) 
 
 
(13,513
) 

 Proceeds from Origination of Mortgage Loans Payable
  
 
255,900
  
 
 
105,580
  
 
 
339,783
  

 Proceeds from Unsecured Credit Facility
  
 
390,500
  
 
 
69,097
  
 
 
180,000
  

 Repayments on Unsecured Credit Facility
  
 
(618,553
) 
 
 
(149,280
) 
 
 
(172,000
) 

 Costs Associated with the Retirement of Debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,008
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of Equity Component Exchangeable Notes
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(33
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities
  
 
(99,504
) 
 
 
(230,383
) 
 
 
32,724
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents
  
 
(61
) 
 
 
137
  
 
 
81
  

 Net (Decrease) Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents
  
 
(15,749
) 
 
 
(157,117
) 
 
 
179,680
  

 Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year
  
 
25,963
  
 
 
182,943
  
 
 
3,182
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year
  
$
10,153
  
 
$
25,963
  
 
$
182,943
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 
  63 


Table of Contents
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (Dollars in thousands except share and per share data) 
1. Organization and Formation of Company 
First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (the “Company”) was organized in the state of Maryland on August 10,
1993. The Company is a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”). Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,” and
“our” refer to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., First Industrial, L.P. and their other controlled subsidiaries. We refer to our operating partnership, First Industrial, L.P., as the “Operating Partnership.” 
We began operations on July 1, 1994. Our operations are conducted primarily through the Operating Partnership, of which we are the
sole general partner, and through our taxable REIT subsidiaries. We also conduct operations through other partnerships and limited liability companies, the operating data of which, together with that of the Operating Partnership and the taxable REIT
subsidiaries, is consolidated with that of the Company as presented herein.  We also own noncontrolling equity interests in,
and provide various services to, two joint ventures (the “2003 Net Lease Joint Venture” and the “2007 Europe Joint Venture”). During 2010, we provided various services to, and ultimately disposed of our equity interests in, five
joint ventures (the “2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture,” the “2005 Core Joint Venture,” the “2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program,” the “2006 Land/Development Joint Venture,” and the “2007
Canada Joint Venture;” together with the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture and the 2007 Europe Joint Venture, the “Joint Ventures”). The Joint Ventures are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the operating
data of our Joint Ventures is not consolidated with that of the Company as presented herein. The 2007 Europe Joint Venture does not own any properties. See Note 5 for more information on the Joint Ventures. 
As of December 31, 2011, we owned 740 industrial properties located in 26 states in the United States and one province in
Canada, containing an aggregate of approximately 66.3 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”).  Any
references to the number of buildings and square footage in the financial statement footnotes are unaudited. 
2. Basis of Presentation 
First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, with an approximate 94.3%
and 92.8% common ownership interest at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Noncontrolling interest at December 31, 2011 and 2010 of 5.7% and 7.2%, respectively, represents the aggregate partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership held by the limited partners thereof.  Our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2011 and 2010
and for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 include the accounts and operating results of the Company and our subsidiaries. Such financial statements present our noncontrolling equity interests in our Joint Ventures under
the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
3. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
In order to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, we are required in preparation of our financial
statements to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the reported amounts of

  64 


Table of Contents

revenues and expenses for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain reclassifications within the footnotes have been
made to prior period amounts in order to conform with current period presentation. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and liquid investments with an initial maturity of three months or less. The carrying amount
approximates fair value due to the short term maturity of these investments. 
Restricted Cash 
At December 31, 2010, restricted cash primarily includes cash held in escrow in connection with mortgage debt requirements. The
carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short term maturity of these investments. 
Investment in Real Estate and Depreciation 
Investment in Real Estate is carried at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. We review our properties on a continuous
basis for impairment and provide a provision if impairments exist. To determine if an impairment may exist, we review our properties and identify those that have had either an event of change or event of circumstances warranting further assessment
of recoverability (such as a decrease in occupancy or decline in general market conditions). If further assessment of recoverability is needed, we estimate the future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the property and its eventual
disposition on an individual property basis. If the sum of the expected future net cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the property on an individual property basis, we will recognize an
impairment loss based upon the estimated fair value of such property. For properties we consider held for sale, we cease depreciating the properties and value the properties at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value, less costs to dispose. If
circumstances arise that were previously considered unlikely, and, as a result, we decide not to sell a property previously classified as held for sale, we will reclassify such property as held and used. Such property is measured at the lower of its
carrying amount (adjusted for any depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recognized had the property been continuously classified as held and used) or fair value at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell. To calculate
the fair value of properties held for sale, we deduct from the estimated sales price of the property the estimated costs to close the sale. We classify properties as held for sale when all criteria within the Financial Accounting Standards
Board’s (the “FASB”) guidance on the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets are met.  Interest costs, real
estate taxes, compensation costs of development personnel and other directly related costs incurred during construction periods are capitalized and depreciated commencing with the date the property is substantially completed. Upon substantial
completion, we reclassify construction in progress to building, tenant improvements and leasing commissions. Such costs begin to be capitalized to the development projects from the point we are undergoing necessary activities to get the development
ready for its intended use and ceases when the development projects are substantially completed and held available for occupancy. Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line method based on the following useful lives: 
 








 
  
Years
 

 Buildings and Improvements
  
 
8 to 50
  

 Land Improvements
  
 
3 to 20
  

 Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment
  
 
5 to 10
  

Construction expenditures for tenant improvements, leasehold improvements and leasing
commissions (inclusive of compensation costs of personnel attributable to leasing) are capitalized and amortized over the terms of each specific lease. Capitalized compensation costs of personnel attributable to leasing relate to time directly
attributable to originating leases with independent third parties that result directly from and are essential to originating those leases and would not have been incurred had these leasing transactions not occurred. Repairs and maintenance are
charged to expense when incurred. Expenditures for improvements are capitalized. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Upon acquisition of a property, we allocate the purchase price of the property based upon
the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which generally consists of land, buildings, tenant improvements, leasing commissions and intangible assets including in-place leases, above market and below market leases and tenant
relationships. We allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property by valuing the property as if it were vacant. Acquired above and below market leases are valued based on the present value of the
difference between prevailing market rates and the in-place rates measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for above market leases and the initial term plus the term of any below market fixed rate renewal options for below
market leases. The above market lease values are amortized as a reduction of rental revenue over the remaining term of the respective leases, and the below market lease values are amortized as an increase to base rental revenue over the remaining
initial terms plus the terms of any below market fixed rate renewal options of the respective leases.  The purchase price is
further allocated to in-place lease values and tenant relationships based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall relationship with the respective tenant. The value of in-place lease intangibles
and tenant relationships, which are included as components of Deferred Leasing Intangibles, Net are amortized over the remaining lease term (and expected renewal periods of the respective lease for tenant relationships) as adjustments to
depreciation and other amortization expense. If a tenant terminates its lease early, the unamortized portion of the tenant improvements, leasing commissions, above and below market leases, the in-place lease value and tenant relationships is
immediately written off. 
Deferred Leasing Intangibles, net of accumulated amortization (exclusive of Deferred Leasing Intangibles held for
sale) included in our total assets and total liabilities consist of the following:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 In-Place Leases
  
$
19,587
  
  
$
21,951
  

 Above Market Leases
  
$
5,888
  
  
$
3,948
  

 Tenant Relationships
  
$
12,562
  
  
$
13,819
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total included in Total Assets
  
$
38,037
  
  
$
39,718
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Below Market Leases
  
$
16,567
  
  
$
18,519
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total included in Total Liabilities
  
$
16,567
  
  
$
18,519
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Amortization expense related to in-place leases and tenant relationships of deferred leasing intangibles, exclusive of
in-place leases and tenant relationships held for sale, was $11,076, $14,185 and $16,162 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Rental revenues increased by $1,431, $2,857 and $4,273 related to net amortization of
above/(below) market leases, exclusive of above/(below) market leases held for sale, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. We will recognize net amortization expense related to deferred leasing intangibles over
the next five years, for properties owned as of December 31, 2011 and not classified as held for sale, as follows:   












 
  
EstimatedAmortizationof
In-PlaceLeases and TenantRelationships
 
  
Estimated NetIncrease toRental RevenuesRelated
toAbove and BelowMarket Leases
 

 2012
  
$
6,519
  
  
$
763
  

 2013
  
$
5,457
  
  
$
531
  

 2014
  
$
4,417
  
  
$
380
  

 2015
  
$
3,750
  
  
$
371
  

 2016
  
$
2,394
  
  
$
884
  

  66 


Table of Contents
Construction Revenues and Expenses 
Construction revenues and expenses represent revenues earned and expenses incurred in connection with a taxable REIT subsidiary acting as
a general contractor or development manager to construct industrial properties and also include revenues and expenses related to the development of properties for third parties. We use the percentage-of-completion contract method to recognize
revenue. Using this method, revenues are recorded based on estimates of the percentage of completion of individual contracts. The percentage of completion estimates are based on a comparison of the contract expenditures incurred to the estimated
final costs. Changes in job performance, job conditions and estimated profitability may result in revisions to costs and income and are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. 
Foreign Currency Transactions and Translation
 At December 31, 2011, we owned a land parcel located in Toronto, Canada for which the functional currency was
determined to be the Canadian dollar. The assets and liabilities related to this land parcel are translated to U.S. dollars from the Canadian dollar based on the current exchange rate prevailing at each balance sheet date. The income statement
accounts related to this land parcel are translated using the average exchange rate for the period. The resulting translation adjustments are included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. 
Deferred Financing Costs 
Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain long-term financing. These fees and costs are being amortized over the
terms of the respective loans. Accumulated amortization of deferred financing costs was $13,086 and $16,565 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Unamortized deferred financing costs are written-off when debt is retired before the
maturity date. 
Investments in Joint Ventures 
Investments in Joint Ventures represent our noncontrolling equity interests in our Joint Ventures. We account for our Investments in Joint
Ventures under the equity method of accounting, as we do not have a majority voting interest, operational control or financial control. Control is determined using accounting standards related to the consolidation of joint ventures and variable
interest entities. In order to assess whether consolidation of a variable-interest entity is required, an enterprise is required to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a variable interest
entity (“VIE”) based on whether the entity (1) has the power to direct matters that most significantly impact the activities of the VIE, and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that
could potentially be significant to the VIE. Additionally, they require an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary and provide a framework for the events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a VIE. 
Under the equity method of accounting, our share of earnings or losses of our Joint Ventures is reflected in income as earned and
contributions or distributions increase or decrease our Investments in Joint Ventures as paid or received, respectively. Differences between our carrying value of our Investments in Joint Ventures and our underlying equity of such Joint Ventures are
amortized over the respective lives of the underlying assets.  On a continuous basis, we assess whether there
are any indicators that the value of our Investments in Joint Ventures may be impaired. An investment is impaired if our estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment, and such decline in fair value
is deemed to be other than temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of the investment. Our estimates of fair value for each investment are
based on a number of subjective assumptions that are subject to economic and market uncertainties including, among others, demand for space, market rental rates and operating costs, the discount rate used to value the cash flows of the

  67 


Table of Contents

properties, the cap rate used to estimate the terminal value of the underlying properties and the discount rate used to value the Joint Ventures’ debt. As these factors are
difficult to predict and are subject to future events that may alter our assumptions, our fair values estimated in the impairment analyses may not be realized. 
Stock Based Compensation 
We account for stock based compensation using the modified prospective application method, which requires measurement of compensation cost
for all stock-based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest.  Net income, net of preferred dividends, is allocated to common stockholders and participating securities based upon their proportionate share of weighted average shares plus weighted average participating
securities. Participating securities are unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents. Certain restricted stock awards and restricted unit awards granted to employees and directors are
considered participating securities as they receive non-forfeitable dividend or dividend equivalents at the same rate as common stock. See Note 9 for further disclosure about participating securities. 
Revenue Recognition 
Rental income is recognized on a straight-line method under which contractual rent increases are recognized evenly over the lease term.
Tenant recovery income includes payments from tenants for real estate taxes, insurance and other property operating expenses and is recognized as revenue in the same period the related expenses are incurred by us. 
Revenue is generally recognized on payments received from tenants for early lease terminations upon the effective termination of a
tenant’s lease and when we have no further obligations under the lease.  Interest income on mortgage loans receivable is
recognized based on the accrual method unless a significant uncertainty of collection exists. If a significant uncertainty exists, interest income is recognized as collected.  We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts against the portion of tenant accounts receivable including deferred rent receivable, which is estimated to be uncollectible. Accounts receivable in the
consolidated balance sheets are shown net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,675 and $3,001 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Deferred rent receivable in the consolidated balance sheets are shown net of an allowance for
doubtful accounts of $2,302 and $1,855 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For accounts receivable we deem uncollectible, we use the direct write-off method. 
Gain on Sale of Real Estate 
Gain on sale of real estate is recognized using the full accrual method, when appropriate. Gains relating to transactions which do not
meet the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met or by using the installment or deposit methods of profit recognition, as appropriate in the circumstances. As the
assets are sold, their costs and related accumulated depreciation are written off with resulting gains or losses reflected in net income or loss. Estimated future costs to be incurred by us after completion of each sale are included in the
determination of the gain on sales. 
Notes Receivable 
Notes receivable are primarily comprised of mortgage note receivables that we have made in connection with sales of real estate assets.
The note receivables are recorded at fair value at the time of issuance. Interest income is accrued as earned. Notes receivable are considered past due based on the contractual terms of the note agreement. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate the
collectability of each mortgage note receivable based on various factors which may include payment history, expected fair value of the collateral securing the loan, internal and 
  68 


Table of Contents

external credit information and/or economic trends. A loan is considered impaired when, based upon current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due
under the existing contractual terms. When a loan is considered impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the note receivable to the present value of expected future cash flows. Since the majority of
our notes receivable are collateralized by a first mortgage, the loans have risk characteristics similar to the risks in owning commercial real estate. 
Income Taxes 
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. To qualify as a REIT, we must meet a number of organizational and operational
requirements, including a requirement to distribute at least 90% of our adjusted taxable income to our stockholders. Management intends to continue to adhere to these requirements and to maintain our REIT status. As a REIT, we are entitled to a tax
deduction for some or all of the dividends we pay to shareholders. Accordingly, we generally will not be subject to federal income taxes as long as we currently distribute to shareholders an amount equal to or in excess of our taxable income. If we
fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.  REIT qualification reduces, but does not eliminate, the amount of state and local taxes we pay. In addition, our financial statements include the operations of taxable corporate subsidiaries that are not
entitled to a dividends paid deduction and are subject to corporate federal, state and local income taxes. As a REIT, we may also be subject to certain federal excise and franchise taxes if we engage in certain types of transactions. A
benefit/provision has been made for federal, state and local income taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In accordance with FASB’s guidance, the total benefit/provision has been separately allocated to income (loss) from
continuing operations, income (loss) from discontinued operations and gain (loss) on sale of real estate. The provision for excise and franchise taxes has been reflected in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of
operations and has not been separately stated due to its insignificance.  We evaluate tax positions taken in the financial
statements on a quarterly basis under the interpretation for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As a result of this evaluation, we may recognize a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is “more-likely-than-not”
that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2011, we do not have any unrecognized tax benefits.  We file income tax returns in the U.S., and various states and foreign jurisdictions. In general, the statutes of limitations for income tax returns remain open for the years 2008 through 2011. One of our
taxable REIT subsidiaries which liquidated in September 2009 is currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for 2008 and for the tax year ended September 1, 2009 during which we received refunds from the IRS of
$3,767 and $40,418, respectively.  During 2005, we recorded a $745 franchise tax reserve related to a potential state
franchise tax assessment for the 1996-2001 tax years. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we received a refund from the state, representing amounts paid during 2006 related to the 1996-2001 tax years. Based on the refund received and
discussions with the taxing authorities, as of December 31, 2011, management believes that it is unlikely that any franchise tax amounts will be assessed by the state for such tax years. As such, during the year ended December 31, 2011, we have
reversed $745 of franchise taxes. Franchise taxes are recorded within general and administrative expense. 
Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) 
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
and any dilutive non-participating securities for the period. See Note 9 for further disclosure about EPS. 
  69 


Table of Contents
Derivative Financial Instruments 
Historically, we have used interest rate protection agreements (“Agreements”) to fix the interest rate on anticipated offerings
of senior unsecured notes or convert floating rate debt to fixed rate debt. Receipts or payments that result from the settlement of Agreements used to fix the interest rate on anticipated offerings of senior unsecured notes are amortized over the
life of the derivative or the life of the debt and included in interest expense. Receipts or payments resulting from Agreements used to convert floating rate debt to fixed rate debt are recognized as a component of interest expense. Agreements which
qualify for hedge accounting are marked-to-market and any gain or loss that is effective is recognized in other comprehensive income (shareholders’ equity). Agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked-to-market and any gain
or loss is recognized in net income (loss) immediately. Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income during the hedge period are reclassified to earnings in the same period during which the forecasted transaction or hedged item affects net
income (loss). The credit risks associated with Agreements are controlled through the evaluation and monitoring of the creditworthiness of the counterparty. In the event that the counterparty fails to meet the terms of Agreements, our exposure is
limited to the current value of the interest rate differential, not the notional amount, and our carrying value of Agreements on the balance sheet. See Note 14 for more information on Agreements. 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Financial instruments other than our derivatives include tenant accounts receivable, net, notes receivable, accounts payable, other
accrued expenses, mortgage and other loans payable, unsecured credit facility and senior unsecured notes. The fair values of tenant accounts receivable, net, accounts payable and other accrued expenses approximate their carrying or contract values.
See Note 6 for the fair values of the mortgage and other loans payable, unsecured credit facility and senior unsecured notes and see Note 4 for the fair value of our notes receivable. 
Discontinued Operations 
The FASB’s guidance on financial reporting for the disposal of long lived assets requires that the results of operations and gains or
losses on the sale of property or property held for sale be presented in discontinued operations if both of the following criteria are met: (a) the operations and cash flows of the property have been (or will be) eliminated from the ongoing
operations of the Company as a result of the disposal transaction and (b) we will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the property after the disposal transaction. The guidance also requires prior period results
of operations for these properties to be reclassified and presented in discontinued operations in prior consolidated statements of operations. 
Segment Reporting 
Management views the Company as a single segment based on its method of internal reporting. 
4. Investment in Real Estate 
Acquisitions  In 2009, we acquired one land parcel. The purchase price of the land parcel was approximately $208, excluding costs incurred in conjunction with the acquisition of the land parcel. We also substantially
completed the development of two industrial properties comprising approximately 1.1 million square feet of GLA at a cost of approximately $41,258. We reclassed the costs of the substantially completed developments from construction in progress
to building, tenant improvements and leasing commissions.  In 2010, we acquired three industrial properties comprising, in the
aggregate, approximately 0.5 million square feet of GLA, including one industrial property purchased from the 2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture (see Note 5). The purchase price of these acquisitions totaled approximately $22,408
excluding costs incurred in conjunction with the acquisition of the industrial properties. 
  70 


Table of Contents
In 2011, we acquired one industrial property comprising approximately 0.7 million
square feet of GLA in connection with the purchase of the 85% equity interest in one property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture (see Note 5). The gross agreed-upon fair value for the real estate was $30,625,
excluding costs incurred in conjunction with the acquisition of the industrial property. The acquisition was funded through the assumption of a mortgage loan, whose carrying value approximated fair market value, in the amount of $24,417 and a cash
payment of $5,277 (85% of the net fair value of the acquisition). We accounted for this transaction as a step acquisition utilizing the purchase method of accounting. Due to the change in control that occurred, we recorded a gain of approximately
$689 related to the difference between our carrying value and fair value of our equity interest on the acquisition date. 
Intangible Assets Subject To Amortization in the Period of Acquisition 
The fair value at the date of acquisition of in-place leases, above market leases and tenant relationships recorded due to real estate
properties acquired for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, which is recorded as deferred leasing intangibles, is as follows:   












 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2011
 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2010
 

 In-Place Leases
  
$
2,511
  
  
$
1,782
  

 Above Market Leases
  
$
2,883
  
  
$
239
  

 Tenant Relationships
  
$
1,553
  
  
$
1,881
  

The weighted average life in months of in-place leases, above market leases and tenant relationships recorded at the
time of acquisition at the time of acquisition as a result of the real estate properties acquired for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:   












 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2011
 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2010
 

 In-Place Leases
  
 
56
  
  
 
100
  

 Above Market Leases
  
 
56
  
  
 
88
  

 Tenant Relationships
  
 
116
  
  
 
165
  

Sales and Discontinued Operations 
In 2009, we sold 15 industrial properties comprising approximately 1.9 million square feet of GLA and several land parcels. Gross
proceeds from the sales of the 15 industrial properties and several land parcels were approximately $100,194. The gain on sale of real estate was approximately $24,580, of which $24,206 is shown in discontinued operations. The 15 sold industrial
properties meet the criteria to be included in discontinued operations. Therefore the results of operations and gain on sale of real estate for the 15 sold industrial properties are included in discontinued operations. The results of operations and
gain on sale of real estate for the several land parcels that do not meet the criteria to be included in discontinued operations are included in continuing operations.  In 2010, we sold 13 industrial properties comprising approximately 1.1 million square feet of GLA and several land parcels. Gross proceeds from the sales of the 13 industrial properties and several
land parcels were approximately $71,019. The gain on sale of real estate was approximately $11,951, of which $11,092 is shown in discontinued operations. The 13 sold industrial properties and one land parcel that received ground rental revenues meet
the criteria to be included in discontinued operations. Therefore the results of operations and gain on sale of real estate for the 13 sold industrial properties and one land parcel that received ground rental revenues are included in discontinued
operations. The results of operations and gain on sale of real estate for the several land parcels that do not meet the criteria to be included in discontinued operations are included in continuing operations. 
  71 


Table of Contents
In 2011, we sold 36 industrial properties comprising approximately 2.9 million square
feet of GLA and one land parcel. Gross proceeds from the sales of the 36 industrial properties and one land parcel were approximately $86,643. Included in the 36 industrial properties sold is one industrial property totaling approximately
0.4 million square feet of GLA that we transferred title to a lender in satisfaction of a non-recourse mortgage loan (See Note 6). The gain on sale of real estate was approximately $21,789, of which $20,419 is shown in discontinued operations.
The 36 sold industrial properties meet the criteria to be included in discontinued operations. Therefore the results of operations and gain on sale of real estate for the 36 sold industrial properties are included in discontinued operations. The
results of operations and gain on sale of real estate for the one land parcel that does not meet the criteria to be included in discontinued operations are included in continuing operations. 
At December 31, 2011, we had 46 industrial properties comprising approximately 4.8 million square feet of GLA held for sale.
The results of operations of the 46 industrial properties held for sale at December 31, 2011 are included in discontinued operations. There can be no assurance that such industrial properties held for sale will be sold. 
The following table discloses certain information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 regarding the industrial
properties included in our discontinued operations.   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Total Revenues
  
$
19,932
  
 
$
27,481
  
 
$
36,850
  

 Property Expenses
  
 
(8,658
) 
 
 
(11,821
) 
 
 
(14,966
) 

 Impairment of Real Estate
  
 
(6,146
) 
 
 
(81,648
) 
 
 
(1,317
) 

 Depreciation and Amortization
  
 
(2,145
) 
 
 
(11,273
) 
 
 
(17,992
) 

 Interest Expense
  
 
(63
) 
 
 
(268
) 
 
 
(653
) 

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate
  
 
20,419
  
 
 
11,092
  
 
 
24,206
  

 Provision for Income Taxes
  
 
(1,246
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,846
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations
  
$
22,093
  
 
$
(66,437
) 
 
$
24,282
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had notes receivable outstanding of approximately $55,502 and $58,803, net of a
discount of $319 and $383, respectively, which are included as a component of Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Net. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of the notes receivable was $58,734 and $60,944, respectively. The fair value of
our notes receivable was determined by discounting the future cash flows using current rates at which similar loans with similar remaining maturities would be made to other borrowers. The current market rates we utilized were internally estimated;
therefore, we have concluded that our determination of fair value of our notes receivable was primarily based upon Level 3 inputs, as defined below.  Impairment Charges  On October 22, 2010, we amended our
existing revolving credit facility (See Note 6). In conjunction with the amendment, management identified a pool of real estate assets (the “Non-Strategic Assets”) that it intended to sell. The Non-Strategic Assets originally consisted of
195 industrial properties comprising approximately 16.4 million square feet of GLA and land parcels comprising approximately 724 gross acres. At the time of the amendment, management reassessed the holding period for the Non-Strategic
Assets and determined that certain of the industrial properties were impaired, and as such, the Company recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $185,397 for the year ended December 31, 2010. 
At December 31, 2011, the Non-Strategic Assets consisted of 133 industrial properties comprising approximately 11.3 million
square feet of GLA and land parcels comprising approximately 359 gross acres. Forty-six industrial properties comprising approximately 4.8 million square feet of GLA and land parcels comprising approximately 61 acres of the Non-Strategic
Assets were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2011. The net impairment charges for assets that qualify to be classified as held for sale at 
  72 


Table of Contents

December 31, 2011 were calculated as the difference of the carrying value of the properties and land parcels over the fair value less costs to sell. The net impairment charges recorded
during year ended December 31, 2011 are due to updated fair market values for certain of the Non-Strategic Assets whose estimated fair market values have changed since December 31, 2010. On the date an asset no longer qualifies to be
classified as held for sale, the carrying value must be reestablished at the lower of the estimated fair market value of the asset or the carrying value of the asset prior to held for sale classification, adjusted for any depreciation and
amortization that would have been recorded if the asset had not been classified as held for sale. Impairment has been reversed and/or catch-up depreciation and amortization has been recorded during year ended December 31, 2011, if applicable,
for these assets that are no longer classified as held for sale.  In addition to the impairment recorded related to the
Non-Strategic Assets, during the three months ended March 31, 2010, we recorded an impairment charge in the amount of $9,155 related to a property comprised of 0.3 million square feet of GLA located in Grand Rapids, Michigan (“Grand
Rapids Property”) in connection with the negotiation of a new lease. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of $6,934 related to a property comprised of 0.2 million square feet of GLA located in the
Inland Empire (“Inland Empire Property”) due to adverse conditions in the credit and real estate markets. The non-cash impairment charges related to the Grand Rapids Property and the Inland Empire Property were based upon the difference
between the fair value of the properties and their carrying value.  During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, we recorded the following net non-cash impairment charges:   
















 
  
Year EndedDecember 
31,2011
 
 
Year EndedDecember 
31,2010
 
 
Year EndedDecember 
31,2009
 

 Operating Properties—Held for Sale and Sold Assets
  
$
(6,146
) 
 
$
(81,648
) 
 
$
(1,317
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Impairment—Discontinued Operations
  
$
(6,146
) 
 
$
(81,648
) 
 
$
(1,317
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Land Parcels—Held for Sale and Sold Assets
  
$
5,879
  
 
$
(8,275
) 
 
$
—  
  

 Operating Properties—Held for Use
  
 
1,687
  
 
 
(90,204
) 
 
 
(5,617
) 

 Land Parcels—Held for Use
  
 
1,241
  
 
 
(14,425
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Impairment—Continuing Operations
  
$
8,807
  
 
$
(112,904
) 
 
$
(5,617
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Net Impairment
  
$
2,661
  
 
$
(194,552
) 
 
$
(6,934
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The guidance for the fair value measurement provisions for the impairment of long lived assets recorded at fair value
establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets; Level 2, defined as
inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.
The fair market values were determined using widely accepted valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analyses on expected cash flows, internal valuations of real estate and third party offers. 
For operational real estate assets, the most significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analyses included the discount
rate, projected occupancy levels, rental rates and capital expenditures, and the future exit capitalization rate. For the valuation of land parcels, we reviewed recent comparable sales transactions, to the extent available, or if not available, we
considered older comparable transactions, adjusted upward or downward to reflect management’s assumptions about current market conditions. In all cases, members of our management team that were responsible for the individual markets where the
land parcels were located determined the internal valuations. Valuations based on third party offers include bona fide contract prices and letter of intent amounts, that we believe are indicative of fair value. 
  73 


Table of Contents
The following tables present information about our assets that were measured at fair value
on a non-recurring basis during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The tables indicate the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques we utilized to determine fair value. 
 
























 
  
 
 
  
Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis Using:
 
  
 
 

 Description
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2011
 
  
Quoted Prices
inActive Markets forIdentical
Assets(Level 1)
 
  
Significant
OtherObservable Inputs(Level 2)
 
  
UnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
  
TotalImpairment
 

 Long-lived Assets Held for Sale*
  
$
52,057
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
52,057
  
  
$
(6,121
) 

 Long-lived Assets Held and Used*
  
$
22,090
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
22,090
  
  
 
(896
) 


  



  



  



  



  
  
  
 


  



  



  



  



  
$
(7,017
) 
  
























 
  
 
 
  
Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis Using:
 
  
 
 

 Description
  
Year EndedDecember 
31,2010
 
  
Quoted Prices
inActive Markets forIdentical
Assets(Level 1)
 
  
Significant
OtherObservable Inputs(Level 2)
 
  
UnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
  
TotalImpairment
 

 Long-lived Assets Held for Sale
  
$
288,369
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
288,369
  
  
$
(193,226
) 

 Long-lived Assets Held and Used
  
$
3,905
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
3,905
  
  
 
(1,326
) 


  



  



  



  



  
  
  
 


  



  



  



  



  
$
(194,552
) 

  
 


*
Excludes industrial properties and land parcels for which an impairment reversal of $9,678 was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011, since the related
assets are recorded at carrying value, which is lower than estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. 
5. Investments in Joint Ventures 
On May 16, 2003, we entered into the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture with an institutional investor to invest in
industrial properties. We own a 15% equity interest in and provide property management services to the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture. As of December 31, 2011, the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture owned seven industrial properties comprising
approximately 3.4 million square feet of GLA (see Note 16 for subsequent events). The 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture is considered a variable interest entity, however, we continue to conclude that we are not the primary beneficiary of this
venture. As of December 31, 2011, our investment in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture is $1,674. Our maximum exposure to loss is currently equal to our investment balance. On May 26, 2011, we acquired the 85% equity interest in one property
from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture (see Note 4).  During December 2007, we entered into the
2007 Europe Joint Venture with an institutional investor to invest in, own, develop, redevelop and operate industrial properties. We continue to hold our 10% equity interest in the 2007 Europe Joint Venture. As of December 31, 2011, the 2007
Europe Joint Venture did not own any properties.  On August 5, 2010, we sold our interests in the 2005
Development/Repositioning Joint Venture, the 2005 Core Joint Venture, the 2006 Land/Development Joint Venture and the 2007 Canada Joint Venture to our joint venture partner generating sale proceeds of approximately $5.0 million. In connection
with the sale, we wrote off our carrying value for the 2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture, the 2005 Core Joint Venture, the 2006 Land/Development Joint Venture and the 2007 Canada Joint Venture as well as $1,625 of unrealized loss recorded
in Other Comprehensive Income (see Note 14). We recorded an $11,226 gain related to the sale, which is included in Gain on Sale of Joint Venture Interests for the year ended December 31, 2010. As a result of this sale, we no longer serve
as asset manager for these ventures. Pursuant to the sale agreement, we were entitled to proceeds related to sales of certain assets (the “Sale Assets”), if the sale of such assets was consummated by a

  74 


Table of Contents

stated timeframe. Three of the Sale Assets closed between August 6, 2010 and December 31, 2010 and we earned approximately $2,700, which is included in the Gain on Sale of Joint Venture
Interests for the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, we were entitled to earn leasing, development and disposition fees related to certain assets identified at the time of sale within the sale agreement. On June 11, 2010, we
purchased an industrial property from the 2005 Development/Repositioning Joint Venture for a purchase price of $14,627.  On
March 21, 2006, we entered into the 2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program with an institutional investor to invest in industrial properties. We owned a 15% equity interest in and provided property management, asset management and leasing
management services to the 2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program. Pursuant to the buy/sell provision in the 2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program’s governing agreement that our counterparty exercised on May 25, 2010, we sold our interest in
the real estate property assets in the 2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program to our counterparty and received $4,541 in net proceeds. In connection with the sale, we wrote off our carrying value for the 2006 Net Lease Co-Investment Program and
recorded a $852 gain, which is included in Equity in Income (Loss) of Joint Ventures.  During July 2007, we entered into a
management arrangement with an institutional investor to provide property management, leasing, acquisition, disposition and portfolio management services for three industrial properties (the “July 2007 Fund”). We do not own an equity
interest in the July 2007 Fund, however we are entitled to incentive payments if certain economic thresholds related to the industrial properties are achieved. Effective September 2, 2009, we ceased to provide any services for two of the
industrial properties in the July 2007 Fund. We received a one-time fee of approximately $866 in 2009 from the termination of the management agreement. Effective May 24, 2010, we ceased to provide any services to the remaining industrial
property in the July 2007 Fund.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we have receivables from the Joint Ventures (and/or our
former Joint Venture partners) in the aggregate amount of $137 and $2,857, respectively. These receivable amounts are included in Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Net. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized
fees of $970, $4,952 and $11,174, respectively, from our Joint Ventures.  The combined summarized financial information of the
investments in Joint Ventures is as follows:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Condensed Combined Balance Sheets
  



 




 Gross Real Estate Investment
  
$
155,555
  
 
$
210,567
  

 Less: Accumulated Depreciation
  
 
(41,342
) 
 
 
(47,286
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Real Estate
  
 
114,213
  
 
 
163,281
  

 Other Assets
  
 
23,364
  
 
 
33,351
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Assets
  
$
137,577
  
 
$
196,632
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Debt
  
$
112,261
  
 
$
157,431
  

 Other Liabilities
  
 
5,779
  
 
 
10,849
  

 Equity
  
 
19,537
  
 
 
28,352
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities and Equity
  
$
137,577
  
 
$
196,632
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Company’s share of Equity
  
$
3,029
  
 
$
4,344
  

 Basis Differentials(1)
  
 
(1,564
) 
 
 
(2,089
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Carrying Value of the Company’s investments in Joint Ventures
  
$
1,465
  
 
$
2,255
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  
 


(1)
This amount represents the aggregate difference between our historical cost basis and the basis reflected at the joint venture level. Basis differentials are primarily
comprised of impairments we recorded to reduce certain of our investments in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture to fair value and certain deferred fees which are not reflected at the joint venture level. 
  75 


Table of Contents
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Condensed Combined Statements of Operations
  



  



 




 Total Revenues
  
$
16,799
  
  
$
55,894
  
 
$
85,426
  

 Expenses:
  



  



 




 Operating and Other
  
 
3,114
  
  
 
23,862
  
 
 
41,359
  

 Interest
  
 
7,791
  
  
 
28,622
  
 
 
39,749
  

 Depreciation and Amortization
  
 
7,312
  
  
 
27,202
  
 
 
47,487
  

 Impairment of Real Estate
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,268
  
 
 
150,804
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Expenses
  
 
18,217
  
  
 
82,954
  
 
 
279,399
  

 Income from Discontinued Operations (Including Gain on Sale of Real Estate of $3,137, $2,761 and $1,177 for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively)
  
 
2,674
  
  
 
1,942
  
 
 
1,799
  

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate
  
 
—  
  
  
 
808
  
 
 
8,603
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income (Loss)
  
$
1,256
  
  
$
(24,310
) 
 
$
(183,571
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Company’s Share of Net Income (Loss)
  
$
980
  
  
$
675
  
 
$
(1,276
) 

 Impairment on the Company’s Investments in Joint Ventures
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,194
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Equity in Income (Loss) of Joint Ventures
  
$
980
  
  
$
675
  
 
$
(6,470
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

6. Indebtedness 
The following table discloses certain information regarding our indebtedness: 
 


















 
 
Outstanding Balance at
 
 
InterestRate atDecember 31,2011
 
EffectiveInterestRate atIssuance
 
MaturityDate

 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
 
 

 Mortgage and Other Loans Payable, Net*
 
$
690,256
  
 
$
486,055
  
 
4.45% – 9.25%
 
4.45% – 9.25%
 
January 2013 – October 2021

 Unamortized Premiums*
 
 
(305
) 
 
 
(358
) 
 

 

 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 


 Mortgage and Other Loans Payable, Gross*
 
$
689,951
  
 
$
485,697
  
 

 

 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 


 Senior Unsecured Notes, Net
 



 



 

 

 


 2016 Notes
 
$
159,455
  
 
$
159,899
  
 
5.750%
 
5.91%
 
01/15/16

 2017 Notes
 
 
59,600
  
 
 
87,195
  
 
7.500%
 
7.52%
 
12/01/17

 2027 Notes
 
 
6,065
  
 
 
13,559
  
 
7.150%
 
7.11%
 
05/15/27

 2028 Notes
 
 
124,894
  
 
 
189,869
  
 
7.600%
 
8.13%
 
07/15/28

 2012 Notes
 
 
61,817
  
 
 
61,774
  
 
6.875%
 
6.85%
 
04/15/12

 2032 Notes
 
 
34,683
  
 
 
34,667
  
 
7.750%
 
7.87%
 
04/15/32

 2014 Notes
 
 
86,997
  
 
 
86,792
  
 
6.420%
 
6.54%
 
06/01/14

 2011 Exchangeable Notes
 
 
—  
  
 
 
128,137
  
 
N/A
 
N/A
 
09/15/11

 2017 II Notes
 
 
106,716
  
 
 
117,637
  
 
5.950%
 
6.37%
 
05/15/17


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 


 Subtotal
 
$
640,227
  
 
$
879,529
  
 

 

 


 Unamortized Discounts
 
 
4,625
  
 
 
6,980
  
 

 

 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 


 Senior Unsecured Notes, Gross
 
$
644,852
  
 
$
886,509
  
 

 

 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 


 Unsecured Credit Facility
 
$
149,000
  
 
$
376,184
  
 
2.385%
 
2.385%
 
12/12/14


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 

  


*
Excludes $1,008 of Mortgage Loan Payable on Real Estate Held for Sale which is net of $48 of unamortized premiums as of December 31, 2010.

  76 


Table of Contents
Mortgage and Other Loans Payable, Net 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we originated or assumed the following mortgage loans: 
 
































 Mortgage Financing
 
LoanPrincipal
 
 
InterestRate
 
 
Origination/AssumptionDate
 
MaturityDate
 
AmortizationPeriod
 
 
Number ofIndustrialPropertiesCollateralizingMortgage
 
 
GLA(Inmillions)
 
 
PropertyCarryingValue atDecember 31,2011
 

 I - VIII
 
$
178,300
  
 
 
4.45
% 
 
May 2, 2011
 
June 2018
 
 
30-year
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
5.9
  
 
$
206,291
  

 IX
 
 
24,417
  
 
 
5.579
% 
 
May 26, 2011
 
February 2016
 
 
30-year
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0.7
  
 
 
28,991
  

 X-XX
 
 
77,600
  
 
 
4.85
% 
 
September 23, 2011
 
October 2021
 
 
30-year
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
2.3
  
 
 
84,403
  


 
  
  
 
 



 

 

 



 



 



 
  
  
 


 
$
280,317
  
 



 

 

 



 



 



 
$
319,685
  


 
  
  
 
 



 

 

 



 



 



 
  
  
 

For Mortgage Financings I through VIII and Mortgage Financings X through XX, principal prepayments are prohibited
for 12 months after loan origination, after which prepayment premiums are calculated at the greater of yield maintenance or 1% of the outstanding balance. For Mortgage Financing IX, principal prepayments are prohibited until three months prior
to maturity, but defeasance is allowed subject to certain conditions.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we paid
off and retired prior to maturity the following mortgage loans:   
















 Loan
Principal Paid Off
 
InterestRate
 
 
PayoffDate
 
MaturityDate
 
(Loss) Gain onRetirement 
ofDebt
 

$14,520
 
 
6.75
% 
 
February 10, 2011
 
September 2012
 
$
(213
) 

18,662
 
 
7.50
% 
 
March 9, 2011
 
December 2014
 
 
(813
) 

27,389
 
 
7.50
% 
 
April 1, 2011
 
October 2014
 
 
(1,104
) 

2,091
 
 
7.54
% 
 
November 30, 2011
 
January 2012
 
 
2
  

  
 



 

 

 
  
  
 

$62,662
 



 

 

 
$
(2,128
) 

  
 



 

 

 
  
  
 

On September 20, 2011, we transferred title to a property totaling approximately 0.4 million square feet of
GLA and an escrow balance in the amount of $1,845 to a lender in satisfaction of a $5,040 non-recourse mortgage loan. We recognized a $147 loss related to the transaction, which is included in loss on retirement of debt for the year ended
December 31, 2011.  On April 30, 2010, we prepaid and retired our secured mortgage debt maturing in September 2024
in the amount of $1,654, excluding a prepayment fee of $17, which is included in Loss from Retirement of Debt.  On
December 1, 2010, we paid off and retired our secured mortgage debt maturing in December 2010 in the amount of $12,970. 
As of December 31, 2011, mortgage and other loans payable are collateralized by, and in some instances cross-collateralized by,
industrial properties with a net carrying value of $889,722 and one letter of credit in the amount of $537. We believe the Operating Partnership and the Company were in compliance with all covenants relating to mortgage loans payable as of
December 31, 2011. 
  77 


Table of Contents
Senior Unsecured Notes, Net 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we repurchased and retired the following senior unsecured notes
prior to maturity:   




















 
  
Principal Amount Repurchased
 
  
Purchase Price
 

 
  
For theYear EndedDecember 31,2011
 
  
For theYear EndedDecember 31,2010
 
  
For theYear EndedDecember 31,2011
 
  
For theYear EndedDecember 31,2010
 

 2011 Notes
  
$
—  
  
  
$
143,498
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
147,723
  

 2011 Exchangeable Notes
  
 
—  
  
  
 
18,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,936
  

 2012 Notes
  
 
—  
  
  
 
82,236
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
82,235
  

 2014 Notes
  
 
1,144
  
  
 
21,062
  
  
 
1,143
  
  
 
17,964
  

 2016 Notes
  
 
500
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
475
  
  
 
—  
  

 2017 Notes
  
 
27,619
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
27,506
  
  
 
—  
  

 2017 II Notes
  
 
10,969
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
10,182
  
  
 
—  
  

 2027 Notes
  
 
7,500
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,500
  
  
 
—  
  

 2028 Notes
  
 
65,025
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
63,861
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
112,757
  
  
$
264,796
  
  
$
110,667
  
  
$
265,858
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

In connection with these repurchases prior to maturity, we recognized $2,012 and $4,096 as loss from retirement of debt
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, which is the difference between the repurchase price of $110,667 and $265,858, respectively, and the principal amount retired of $112,757 and $264,796,
respectively, net of the pro rata write off of the unamortized debt issue discount, the unamortized loan fees, the unamortized settlement amount of the interest rate protection agreements and the professional services fees related to the repurchases
of $135, $717, $3,250 and $0, respectively, and $1,707, $519, $(183) and $991 respectively.  On September 15, 2011, we
paid off and retired our 2011 Exchangeable Notes, at maturity, in the amount of $128,900.  The indentures governing our senior
unsecured notes contain certain covenants, including limitations on incurrence of debt and debt service coverage. We believe the Operating Partnership and the Company were in compliance with all covenants relating to senior unsecured debt as of
December 31, 2011. However, these financial covenants are complex and there can be no assurance that these provisions would not be interpreted by our noteholders in a manner that could impose and cause us to incur material costs. 
Unsecured Credit Facility  We have maintained an unsecured credit facility since 1997. Effective October 22, 2010, we amended our existing revolving credit facility to provide for a $200,000 term loan and a
$200,000 revolving line of credit (together the “Old Credit Facility”). The Old Credit Facility was to mature on September 28, 2012. In connection with the amendment of the Old Credit Facility, we wrote off $191 of unamortized
deferred financing costs associated with the decreased capacity of the agreement, which is included in Loss from Retirement of Debt for the year ended December 31, 2010. During June 2011, we made a permanent repayment of $100,000 on the term
loan of our Old Credit Facility.  During December 2011, we entered into a new $450,000 unsecured revolving credit agreement
(the “Unsecured Credit Facility”) which replaced the Old Credit Facility. We may request that the borrowing capacity under the Unsecured Credit Facility be increased to $500,000, subject to certain restrictions. We wrote off
$1,172 of unamortized deferred financing costs reflected in Loss from Retirement of Debt for the year ended December 31, 2011 related to the Old Credit Facility. The Unsecured Credit Facility provides for interest only payments initially at
LIBOR plus 210 basis points or at a base rate plus 210 basis points, at our election, based on 
  78 


Table of Contents

our leverage ratio. The Unsecured Credit Facility matures on December 12, 2014, unless extended an additional one year at our election, subject to certain conditions. At
December 31, 2011, borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility bore interest at a weighted average interest rate of 2.385%.  The Unsecured Credit Facility contains certain covenants, including limitations on incurrence of debt and debt service coverage. Under the Unsecured Credit Facility, an event of default can also occur if
the lenders, in their good faith judgment, determine that a material adverse change has occurred which could prevent timely repayment or materially impair our ability to perform our obligations under the loan agreement. We believe that we were in
compliance with all covenants relating to the Unsecured Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011. However, these financial covenants are complex and there can be no assurance that these provisions would not be interpreted by our lenders in a
manner that could impose and cause us to incur material costs.  The following is a schedule of the stated maturities and
scheduled principal payments of our indebtedness, exclusive of premiums and discounts, for the next five years ending December 31, and thereafter:   








 
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
74,518
  

 2013
  
 
13,164
  

 2014
  
 
305,063
  

 2015
  
 
62,088
  

 2016
  
 
293,467
  

 Thereafter
  
 
735,503
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,483,803
  


  
  
  
 

Fair Value  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of our indebtedness was as follows:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 

 Mortgage and Other Loans Payable, including mortgages Held for Sale
  
$
690,256
  
  
$
743,419
  
  
$
487,063
  
  
$
548,696
  

 Senior Unsecured Debt
  
 
640,227
  
  
 
630,622
  
  
 
879,529
  
  
 
851,771
  

 Unsecured Credit Facility
  
 
149,000
  
  
 
149,000
  
  
 
376,184
  
  
 
376,184
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,479,483
  
  
$
1,523,041
  
  
$
1,742,776
  
  
$
1,776,651
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The fair values of our mortgage loans payable and other loans payable were determined by discounting the future cash
flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made based upon similar leverage levels and similar remaining maturities. The current market rates we utilized were internally estimated; therefore, we have concluded that our
determination of fair value for our mortgage and other loans payable was primarily based upon Level 3 inputs. The fair value of the senior unsecured notes was determined by quoted market prices (Level 1) or, for certain senior unsecured notes that
are thinly traded, were based upon transactions for senior unsecured notes with comparable maturities (Level 2). The fair value of the Unsecured Credit Facility was determined by discounting the future cash flows using current rates at which similar
loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining term, assuming no repayment until maturity. The current market rate utilized for our Unsecured Credit Facility was internally estimated; therefore, we have
concluded that our determination of fair value was primarily based upon Level 3 inputs. 
  79 


Table of Contents
7. Stockholders’ Equity 
Preferred Stock  On May 27, 2004, we issued 50,000 Depositary Shares, each representing 1/100th of a share of our 6.236%, $0.01 par value, Series F Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the
“Series F Preferred Stock”), at an initial offering price of $1,000.00 per Depositary Share. Dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly in arrears. The
coupon rate of our Series F Preferred Stock resets every quarter at 2.375% plus the greater of (i) the 30 year Treasury CMT Rate, (ii) the 10 year Treasury CMT Rate or (iii) 3-month LIBOR. For the fourth quarter of
2011, the coupon rate was 5.365%. With respect to the payment of dividends and amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the Series F Preferred Stock ranks senior to payments on our Common Stock and pari passu with our Series G
Preferred Stock (hereinafter defined), Series J Preferred Stock (hereinafter defined) and Series K Preferred Stock (hereinafter defined). In October 2008, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to floating
interest rates related to the forecasted reset rate of the coupon rate of our Series F Preferred Stock (see Note 14 for further information on the agreement).  On May 27, 2004, we issued 25,000 Depositary Shares, each representing 1/100th of a share of our 7.236%, $0.01 par value, Series G Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the
“Series G Preferred Stock”), at an initial offering price of $1,000.00 per Depositary Share. Dividends on the Series G Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable semi-annually in arrears for
the period from the date of original issuance of the Series G Preferred Stock through March 31, 2014 (the “Series G Initial Fixed Rate Period”), commencing on September 30, 2004, at a rate of 7.236% per annum of
the liquidation preference (the “Series G Initial Distribution Rate”) (equivalent to $72.36 per Depositary Share). On or after March 31, 2014, the Series G Initial Distribution Rate is subject to reset, at our option,
subject to certain conditions and parameters, at fixed or floating rates and periods. Fixed rates and periods will be determined through a remarketing procedure. Floating rates during floating rate periods will equal 2.500% (the initial credit
spread), plus the greater of (i) the 3-month LIBOR, (ii) the 10 year Treasury CMT Rate, and (iii) the 30 year Treasury CMT Rate, reset quarterly. Dividends on the Series G Preferred Stock are payable semi-annually in arrears for
fixed rate periods subsequent to the Series G Initial Fixed Rate Period and quarterly in arrears for floating rate periods. With respect to the payment of dividends and amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the Series G
Preferred Stock ranks senior to payments on our Common Stock and pari passu with our Series F Preferred Stock, Series J Preferred Stock (hereinafter defined) and Series K Preferred Stock (hereinafter defined). 
On January 13, 2006, we issued 6,000,000 Depositary Shares, each representing 1/10,000th of a share of our 7.25%, $.01 par
value, Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series J Preferred Stock”), at an initial offering price of $25.00 per Depositary Share. The Series J Preferred Stock is redeemable in whole or in part, at our option,
at a cash redemption price of $25.00 per depositary share. Dividends on the Series J Preferred Stock, represented by the Depositary Shares, are cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly in arrears. However, during
any period that both (i) the depositary shares are not listed on the NYSE or AMEX, or quoted on NASDAQ, and (ii) we are not subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, but the preferred shares are outstanding, we will
increase the dividend on the preferred shares to a rate of 8.25% of the liquidation preference per year. With respect to the payment of dividends and amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the Series J Preferred Stock ranks senior
to payments on our Common Stock and pari passu with our Series F Preferred Stock, Series G Preferred Stock and Series K Preferred Stock (hereinafter defined).  On August 21, 2006, we issued 2,000,000 Depositary Shares, each representing 1/10,000th of a share of our 7.25%, $.01 par value, Series K Flexible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
(the “Series K Preferred Stock”), at an initial offering price of $25.00 per Depositary Share. The Series K Preferred Stock is redeemable in whole or in part, at our option, at a cash redemption price of $25.00 per depositary share.
Dividends on the Series K Preferred Stock, represented by the Depositary Shares, are cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly in arrears. With respect to the payment of dividends and amounts upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, the Series K Preferred Stock ranks senior to payments on our Common Stock and pari passu with our Series F Preferred Stock, Series G Preferred Stock and Series J Preferred Stock. 
All series of preferred stock have no stated maturity (although we may redeem all such preferred stock on or following their optional
redemption dates at our option, in whole or in part). 
  80 


Table of Contents
Shares of Common Stock 
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 125,784, 27,586, and 415,466 shares of common stock, respectively, were
converted from an equivalent number of units of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership (“Units”), resulting in a reclassification of $1,109, $316 and $7,817, respectively, of Noncontrolling Interest to First Industrial
Realty Trust Inc.’s Stockholders’ Equity.  On May 12, 2011, we filed an amendment to the Company’s
articles of incorporation, increasing the number of shares of the Company’s common stock authorized for issuance from 100 million to 150 million shares.  On May 31, 2011, we announced an underwritten public offering of 8,400,000 shares of the Company’s common stock at a price of $12.15 per share to the public. Gross offering proceeds upon
settlement on June 6, 2011 were $102,060 in the aggregate. Proceeds to us, net of underwriter’s discount of $1,176 and total expenses of $138, were approximately $100,746. 
On March 3, 2011, we announced an underwritten public offering of 8,900,000 shares of the Company’s common stock at a price of
$11.40 per share to the public. Gross offering proceeds upon settlement on March 4, 2011 were $101,460 in the aggregate. Proceeds to us, net of underwriter’s discount of $890 and total expenses of $166, were approximately $100,404.
 On October 5, 2009, the Company sold in an underwritten public offering 13,635,700 shares of its common stock at a
price of $5.25 per share. Gross offering proceeds from the issuance were $71,587 in the aggregate. Proceeds to the Company, net of underwriters’ discount of $3,042 and total expenses of $765, were approximately $67,780. 
On February 28, 2011, we entered into distribution agreements with sales agents to sell up to 10,000,000 shares of the
Company’s common stock, for up to $100,000 aggregate gross sale proceeds, from time to time in “at-the-market” offerings (the “ATM”). During the year ended December 31, 2011, we issued 115,856 shares of the
Company’s common stock under the ATM resulting in proceeds to us of approximately $1,391, net of $28 paid to the sales agent. Under the terms of the ATM, sales are to be made primarily in transactions that are deemed to be
“at-the-market” offerings, including sales made directly on the New York Stock Exchange or sales made through a market maker other than on an exchange or by privately negotiated transactions. 
On May 4, 2010, we entered into distribution agreements with sales agents to sell up to 10,000,000 shares of the Company’s
common stock from time to time in “at-the-market” offerings (the “Original ATM”). During the year ended December 31, 2010, we issued 5,469,767 shares of the Company’s common stock under the Original ATM for
approximately $44,117, net of $900 paid to the sales agent. Under the terms of the Original ATM, sales were made primarily in transactions that were deemed to be “at-the-market” offerings, including sales made directly on the New York
Stock Exchange or sales made through a market maker other than on an exchange or by privately negotiated transactions. On December 31, 2010, we concluded the Original ATM as a result of the expiration of the distribution agreements with our
sales agents.  On August 8, 2008, the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan
(“DRIP”) became effective. Under the terms of the DRIP, stockholders who participate may reinvest all or part of their dividends in additional common stock of the Company at a discount from the market price, at our discretion, when the
shares are issued and sold directly by us from authorized but unissued shares of the Company’s common stock. Stockholders and non-stockholders may also purchase additional shares at a discounted price, at our discretion, when the shares are
issued and sold directly by us from authorized but unissued shares of the Company’s common stock, by making optional cash payments, subject to certain dollar thresholds. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we did not issue any shares of
the Company’s common stock under the direct stock purchase component of the DRIP. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we issued 875,402 shares of the Company’s common stock under the direct stock purchase component of the
DRIP for approximately $5,970. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company issued 3,034,120 shares under the direct stock purchase component of the DRIP for $15,920. 
  81 


Table of Contents
During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we awarded 23,567 and
50,445 shares, respectively, of common stock to certain directors. The common stock shares had a fair value of approximately $128 and $240, respectively, upon issuance.  The following table is a roll-forward of our shares of common stock outstanding, including unvested restricted shares of common stock (see Note 13), for the three years ended December 31, 2011:
  








 
  
Shares
ofCommon StockOutstanding
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
44,652,182
  

 Issuance of Common Stock, including Issuance of Restricted Stock Units
  
 
16,874,884
  

 Issuance of Restricted Stock Shares
  
 
35,145
  

 Repurchase and Retirement of Restricted Stock Shares
  
 
(132,463
) 

 Conversion of Operating Partnership Units
  
 
415,466
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
61,845,214
  


  
  
  
 

 Issuance of Common Stock, including Issuance of Restricted Stock Units
  
 
6,518,736
  

 Issuance of Restricted Stock Shares
  
 
573,198
  

 Repurchase and Retirement of Restricted Stock Shares
  
 
(123,438
) 

 Conversion of Operating Partnership Units
  
 
27,586
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
68,841,296
  


  
  
  
 

 Issuance of Common Stock, including Issuance of Restricted Stock Units
  
 
17,646,586
  

 Issuance of Restricted Stock Shares
  
 
292,339
  

 Repurchase and Retirement of Restricted Stock Shares
  
 
(98,603
) 

 Conversion of Operating Partnership Units
  
 
125,784
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
86,807,402
  


  
  
  
 

Dividends/Distributions  The coupon rate of our Series F Preferred Stock resets every quarter at 2.375% plus the greater of (i) the 30 year Treasury CMT Rate, (ii) the 10 year Treasury CMT Rate or
(iii) 3-month LIBOR. For the fourth quarter of 2011, the new coupon rate was 5.365%. See Note 14 for additional derivative information related to the Series F Preferred Stock coupon rate reset. 
The following table summarizes dividends/distributions declared for the past three years: 
 




























 
  
Year Ended 2011
 
  
Year Ended 2010
 
  
Year Ended 2009
 

 
  
Dividend/Distributionper Share/Unit
 
  
TotalDividend/Distribution
 
  
Dividend/Distributionper Share/Unit
 
  
TotalDividend/Distribution
 
  
Dividend/Distributionper Share/Unit
 
  
TotalDividend/Distribution
 

 Common Stock/Operating Partnership Units
  
$
0.0000
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
0.0000
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
0.0000
  
  
$
—  
  

 Series F Preferred Stock
  
$
6,510.9028
  
  
$
3,256
  
  
$
6,736.1540
  
  
$
3,368
  
  
$
6,414.5700
  
  
$
3,207
  

 Series G Preferred Stock
  
$
7,236.0000
  
  
$
1,809
  
  
$
7,236.0000
  
  
$
1,809
  
  
$
7,236.0000
  
  
$
1,809
  

 Series J Preferred Stock
  
$
18,125.2000
  
  
$
10,875
  
  
$
18,125.2000
  
  
$
10,875
  
  
$
18,125.2000
  
  
$
10,875
  

 Series K Preferred Stock
  
$
18,125.2000
  
  
$
3,625
  
  
$
18,125.2000
  
  
$
3,625
  
  
$
18,125.2000
  
  
$
3,625
  

  82 


Table of Contents
8. Supplemental Information to Statements of Cash Flows 
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: 
 
















 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2011
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2010
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2009
 

 Interest paid, net of capitalized interest
  
$
100,375
  
 
$
105,276
  
 
$
115,990
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Capitalized Interest
  
$
437
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
281
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income Taxes Paid (Refunded)
  
$
1,876
  
 
$
3,663
  
 
$
(54,173
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities:
  



 



 




 Distribution payable on preferred stock
  
$
4,763
  
 
$
452
  
 
$
452
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Exchange of units for common stock:
  



 



 




 Noncontrolling interest
  
$
(1,109
) 
 
$
(316
) 
 
$
(7,817
) 

 Common stock
  
 
1
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
4
  

 Additional paid-in-capital
  
 
1,108
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
7,813
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property Transfer to Lender in Satisfaction of Non-Recourse Mortgage Loan:
  



 



 




 Net Investment of Real Estate
  
$
(3,200
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Net
  
 
(1,987
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Mortgage Loan Payable, Net
  
 
5,040
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from Retirement of Debt
  
$
(147
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Mortgage loan payable assumed in conjunction with a property acquisition
  
$
(24,417
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Notes receivable issued in conjunction with certain property sales
  
$
7,029
  
 
$
168
  
 
$
20,645
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Write-off of fully depreciated assets
  
$
(58,357
) 
 
$
(59,485
) 
 
$
(55,089
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  83 


Table of Contents
9. Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) 
The computation of basic and diluted EPS is presented below: 
 
















 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,2011
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2010
 
 
Year
EndedDecember 31,2009
 

 Numerator:
  



 



 




 Loss from Continuing Operations
  
$
(32,201
) 
 
$
(155,699
) 
 
$
(20,327
) 

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate, Net of Income Tax Provision
  
 
918
  
 
 
517
  
 
 
231
  

 Noncontrolling Interest Allocable to Continuing Operations
  
 
3,097
  
 
 
13,623
  
 
 
4,019
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from Continuing Operations Attributable to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.
  
 
(28,186
) 
 
 
(141,559
) 
 
 
(16,077
) 

 Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
(19,565
) 
 
 
(19,677
) 
 
 
(19,516
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from Continuing Operations Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders
  
$
(47,751
) 
 
$
(161,236
) 
 
$
(35,593
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Tax Provision
  
$
22,093
  
 
$
(66,437
) 
 
$
24,282
  

 Noncontrolling Interest Allocable to Discontinued Operations
  
 
(1,352
) 
 
 
5,175
  
 
 
(2,472
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.
  
$
20,741
  
 
$
(61,262
) 
 
$
21,810
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders
  
$
(27,010
) 
 
$
(222,498
) 
 
$
(13,783
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



 



 




 Weighted Average Shares—Basic and Diluted
  
 
80,616,000
  
 
 
62,952,565
  
 
 
48,695,317
  

 Basic and Diluted EPS:
  



 



 




 Loss from Continuing Operations Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders
  
$
(0.59
) 
 
$
(2.56
) 
 
$
(0.73
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common
Stockholders
  
$
0.26
  
 
$
(0.97
) 
 
$
0.45
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s Common Stockholders
  
$
(0.34
) 
 
$
(3.53
) 
 
$
(0.28
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Participating securities include 673,381, 662,092 and 355,645 of unvested restricted stock awards outstanding at
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, which participate in non-forfeitable dividends of the Company. Participating security holders are not obligated to share in losses, therefore, none of the net loss attributable to First Industrial
Realty Trust, Inc. was allocated to participating securities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
  84 


Table of Contents
The number of weighted average shares—diluted is the same as the number of weighted
average shares—basic for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as the effect of stock options and restricted unit awards (that do not participate in non-forfeitable dividends of the Company) was excluded as its inclusion would
have been antidilutive to the loss from continuing operations available to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stockholders. The following awards were anti-dilutive and could be dilutive in future periods: 
 
















 
  
Number ofAwardsOutstanding AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
Number ofAwardsOutstanding AtDecember 31,2010
 
  
Number ofAwardsOutstanding AtDecember 31,2009
 

 Non-Participating Securities:
  



  



  




 Restricted Unit Awards
  
 
731,900
  
  
 
1,012,800
  
  
 
1,218,800
  

 Options
  
 
25,201
  
  
 
98,701
  
  
 
139,700
  

10. Income Taxes 
For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common shareholders are classified as ordinary income, capital gain,
return of capital or qualified dividends. We did not pay common share distributions for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  For income tax purposes, distributions paid to preferred shareholders are classified as ordinary income, capital gain, return of capital or qualified dividends. For the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, the preferred distributions per depositary share were classified as follows:   




























 Series J Preferred Stock
  
2011
 
  
As
aPercentageofDistributions
 
 
2010 (AsAmended)
 
  
As
aPercentageofDistributions
 
 
2009
 
  
As
aPercentageofDistributions
 

 Ordinary income
  
$
0.3130
  
  
 
23.02
% 
 
$
1.4652
  
  
 
80.84
% 
 
$
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 

 Long-term capital gains
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
1.3697
  
  
 
75.57
% 

 Unrecaptured Section 1250 gain
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
0.2423
  
  
 
13.37
% 
 
 
0.4428
  
  
 
24.43
% 

 Return of Capital
  
 
1.0402
  
  
 
76.52
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 

 Qualified Dividends
  
 
0.0062
  
  
 
0.46
% 
 
 
0.1050
  
  
 
5.79
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1.3594
  
  
 
100.00
% 
 
$
1.8125
  
  
 
100.00
% 
 
$
1.8125
  
  
 
100.00
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




























 Series K Preferred Stock
  
2011
 
  
As
aPercentageofDistributions
 
 
2010 (AsAmended)
 
  
As
aPercentageofDistributions
 
 
2009
 
  
As
aPercentageofDistributions
 

 Ordinary income
  
$
0.3130
  
  
 
23.02
% 
 
$
1.4652
  
  
 
80.84
% 
 
$
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 

 Long-term capital gains
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
1.3697
  
  
 
75.57
% 

 Unrecaptured Section 1250 gain
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
0.2423
  
  
 
13.37
% 
 
 
0.4428
  
  
 
24.43
% 

 Return of Capital
  
 
1.0402
  
  
 
76.52
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 

 Qualified Dividends
  
 
0.0062
  
  
 
0.46
% 
 
 
0.1050
  
  
 
5.79
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0.00
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1.3594
  
  
 
100.00
% 
 
$
1.8125
  
  
 
100.00
% 
 
$
1.8125
  
  
 
100.00
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The 2010 tax characterization of preferred dividends disclosed in this footnote in the 2010 Form 10-K
contained an error. The impact of the error affects the treatment of our preferred distributions for tax purposes only. The correction results in an increase in the ordinary income classification of $1.4529, an increase in the qualified
dividend classification of $0.0222, an increase in the unrecaptured Section 1250 gain classification of $0.0706, and a decrease in the amount of distributions classified as return of capital of ($1.5457), all per depository
share of our Series J and Series K preferred shares.
  85 


Table of Contents
The components of income tax (provision) benefit for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 are comprised of the following:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
(622
) 
 
$
(893
) 
 
$
38,682
  

 State
  
 
(502
) 
 
 
(2,372
) 
 
 
1,772
  

 Foreign
  
 
(41
) 
 
 
(95
) 
 
 
(835
) 

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal.
  
 
(284
) 
 
 
163
  
 
 
(15,816
) 

 State
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
40
  
 
 
(616
) 

 Foreign.
  
 
(697
) 
 
 
(148
) 
 
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
(2,148
) 
 
$
(3,305
) 
 
$
23,196
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

On August 24, 2009, we received a private letter ruling from the IRS granting favorable loss treatment under
Sections 331 and 336 of the Code on the tax liquidation of one of our old taxable REIT subsidiaries. As a result, we completed a transaction on September 1, 2009 whereby approximately 75% of the assets formerly held by this taxable REIT
subsidiary are now held by a limited liability company which is wholly owned by the Operating Partnership. The remaining 25% of the assets are now held by a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and is 99% owned by one of our taxable REIT
subsidiaries formed in 2009. On November 6, 2009, legislation was signed that allows businesses with net operating losses for 2008 or 2009 to carry back those losses for up to five years. As a result, we received a refund from the IRS of
$40,418 in the fourth quarter of 2009 due to the tax liquidation of one of our old taxable REIT subsidiaries.  Deferred income
taxes represent the tax effect of the temporary differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets (liabilities) include the following as of December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Investments in Joint Ventures
  
$
15
  
 
$
47
  

 Fixed assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,863
  

 Prepaid rent
  
 
45
  
 
 
71
  

 Restricted stock
  
 
43
  
 
 
99
  

 Capitalized Interest
  
 
—  
  
 
 
626
  

 Impairment of Real Estate
  
 
5,683
  
 
 
10,196
  

 Foreign net operating loss carrying forward
  
 
828
  
 
 
706
  

 Valuation Allowance
  
 
(5,078
) 
 
 
(9,301
) 

 Other
  
 
483
  
 
 
569
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets, net of allowance
  
$
2,019
  
 
$
4,876
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Straight-line rent
  
 
(85
) 
 
 
(510
) 

 Fixed assets
  
 
(1,946
) 
 
 
(3,397
) 

 Other
  
 
(108
) 
 
 
(106
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
$
(2,139
) 
 
$
(4,013
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net deferred tax (liability) asset
  
$
(120
) 
 
$
863
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

A valuation allowance is recorded if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our
deferred tax assets will not be realized. We do not have projections of future taxable income in the taxable REIT subsidiaries significant enough to allow us to realize our deferred tax assets. Therefore, we have recorded a valuation
allowance against our deferred tax assets. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax
assets, is included in the current tax provision. 
  86 


Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had net deferred tax (liability) assets of $(120)
and $863, after valuation allowances of $5,078 and $9,301, respectively. The decrease in the valuation allowance of $4,223 from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 is primarily related to a decrease in net deferred tax assets and
liabilities due to sales of property. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had net deferred tax assets of $863 and $776, after valuation allowances of $9,301 and $1,299, respectively. The increase in the valuation allowance of $8,002 from
December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 is primarily related to an increase in net deferred tax assets due to the impairment of real estate.  The components of income tax (provision) benefit for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Tax provision associated with income from operations on sold properties which is included in discontinued
operations
  
$
(119
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(384
) 

 Tax provision associated with gains and losses on the sale of real estate which is included in discontinued
operations
  
 
(1,127
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,462
) 

 Tax provision associated with gains and losses on the sale of real estate
  
 
(452
) 
 
 
(342
) 
 
 
(143
) 

 Income tax (provision) benefit 
  
 
(450
) 
 
 
(2,963
) 
 
 
25,185
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax (provision) benefit
  
$
(2,148
) 
 
$
(3,305
) 
 
$
23,196
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The income tax (provision) benefit pertaining to income from continuing operations and gain on sale of real estate
differs from the amounts computed by applying the applicable federal statutory rate as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Tax (provision) benefit at federal rate related to continuing operations
  
$
(2,162
) 
 
$
5,141
  
 
$
8,574
  

 State tax (provision) benefit, net of federal (provision) benefit
  
 
(521
) 
 
 
(2,320
) 
 
 
1,849
  

 Non-deductible permanent items, net
  
 
(54
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(1,652
) 

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
1,853
  
 
 
(6,108
) 
 
 
16,269
  

 Foreign taxes, net
  
 
(96
) 
 
 
(211
) 
 
 
342
  

 Other
  
 
78
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
(340
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income tax (provision) benefit
  
$
(902
) 
 
$
(3,305
) 
 
$
25,042
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Michigan Tax Issue  As of December 31, 2008, we had paid approximately $1,400 (representing tax and interest for the years 1997-2000) to the State of Michigan regarding business loss carryforwards the appropriateness of
which was the subject of litigation initiated by us. On December 11, 2007, the Michigan Court of Claims rendered a decision against us regarding the business loss carryforwards. Also, the court ruled against us on an alternative position
involving Michigan’s Capital Acquisition Deduction. We filed an appeal to the Michigan Appeals Court in January 2008; however, as a result of the lower court’s decision, an additional approximately $800 (representing tax and interest for
the year 2001) had been accrued through June 30, 2009 for both tax and financial statement purposes. On August 18, 2009, the Michigan Appeals Court issued a decision in our favor on the business loss carryforward issue. The Michigan
Department of Treasury appealed the decision to the Michigan Supreme Court on September 29, 2009; however, we believed there was a very low probability that the Michigan Supreme Court would accept the case. Therefore, in September 2009 we
reversed our accrual of $800 (related to the 2001 tax year) and set up a receivable of $1,400 for the amount paid in 2006 (related to the 1997-2000 tax years), resulting 
  87 


Table of Contents

in an aggregate reversal of prior tax expense of approximately $2,200. On April 23, 2010, the Michigan Supreme Court reversed the decision of the Michigan Appeals Court and reinstated the
decision of the Michigan Court of Claims. Based on the most recent ruling of the Michigan Supreme Court, we reversed the receivable of $1,400 and paid approximately $800, for a total of approximately $2,200 of tax expense for the year ended
December 31, 2010, which is included in continuing operations. 
11. Restructuring Costs 
We committed to a plan to reduce organizational and overhead costs in October 2008 and subsequently modified that plan
during 2011, 2010 and 2009 with the goal of further reducing these costs. The following summarizes our restructuring costs for each of the years ended December 31: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Pre-tax restructuring costs:
  



  



  




 Employee severance and benefits*
  
$
—  
  
  
$
525
  
  
$
5,186
  

 Termination of certain office leases
  
 
1,200
  
  
 
647
  
  
 
1,867
  

 Other
  
 
353
  
  
 
686
  
  
 
753
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total restructuring costs
  
$
1,553
  
  
$
1,858
  
  
$
7,806
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Included in Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities, Net related to severance obligations, remaining lease
payments and other costs incurred but not yet paid
  
$
1,959
  
  
$
1,574
  
  
$
2,884
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  
 


*
Includes $0, $156, and $2,931, respectively, of non-cash costs which represents the accelerated recognition of restricted stock expense for certain employees for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
12. Future Rental Revenues 
Our properties are leased to tenants under net and semi-net operating leases. Minimum lease payments receivable,
excluding tenant reimbursements of expenses, under non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2011 are approximately as follows:   








 2012
  
$
 239,347
  

 2013
  
 
196,288
  

 2014
  
 
157,012
  

 2015
  
 
125,439
  

 2016
  
 
94,840
  

 Thereafter
  
 
326,295
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,139,221
  


  
  
  
 

13. Stock Based Compensation 
We maintain five stock incentive plans (the “Stock Incentive Plans”) which are administered by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. There are 11.5 million shares authorized for issuance under the Stock Incentive Plans. Only officers, certain employees, our Independent Directors and our affiliates generally are eligible to
participate in the Stock Incentive Plans.  The Stock Incentive Plans authorize (i) the grant of stock options that
qualify as incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code, (ii) the grant of stock options that do not so qualify, (iii) restricted stock/Unit awards (including awards subject to performance conditions), and
(iv) dividend equivalent rights. The exercise price of the stock options is determined by the Compensation Committee. Special provisions apply to awards 
  88 


Table of Contents

granted under the Stock Incentive Plans in the event of a change in control in the Company. As of December 31, 2011, awards covering 1.9 million shares of common stock were available to
be granted under the Stock Incentive Plans.  At December 31, 2011, all outstanding stock options are vested. Stock option
transactions for the year ended December 31, 2011 are summarized as follows:   
















 
  
Options
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
98,701
  
 
$
32.34
  
  
$
—  
  

 Expired or Terminated
  
 
(73,500
) 
 
$
32.61
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
25,201
  
 
$
31.57
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 



  




The following table summarizes currently outstanding and exercisable options as of December 31, 2011: 
 














 
 
NumberOutstandingandExercisable
  
RemainingContractual 
Life
 
  
ExercisePrice
 

 January 2002 Grants
 
15,201
  
 
0.04
  
  
$
30.53
  

 May 2002 Grants
 
10,000
  
 
0.37
  
  
$
33.15
  

In September 1994, the Board of Directors approved and we adopted a 401(k)/Profit Sharing Plan. Under our 401(k)/Profit
Sharing Plan, all eligible employees may participate by making voluntary contributions. We may make, but are not required to make, matching contributions. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, matching contributions of $197,
$194 and $0, respectively were recorded.  For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we awarded 292,339,
573,198 and 1,473,600 restricted stock and unit awards to our employees having a fair value at grant date of $3,248, $3,336 and $7,406, respectively. We also awarded 0, 0 and 35,145 restricted stock awards to our directors having a fair value at
grant date of $0, $0 and $149 respectively. Restricted stock awards granted to employees generally vest over a period of three to four years and restricted stock awards granted to directors generally vest over a period of five years. For the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized $3,759, $6,040 and $13,015 in restricted stock amortization related to restricted stock and unit awards, of which $0, $0 and $45, respectively, was capitalized in connection with development
activities. At December 31, 2011, we have $5,141 in unearned compensation related to unvested restricted stock awards. The weighted average period that the unrecognized compensation is expected to be incurred is 0.79 years. 
Restricted stock award and restricted stock unit award transactions for the year ended December 31, 2011 are summarized as follows:
  












 
  
Awards
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant DateFair Value
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,674,892
  
 
$
7.26
  

 Issued
  
 
292,339
  
 
$
11.11
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(51,024
) 
 
$
11.59
  

 Vested
  
 
(510,926
) 
 
$
9.74
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,405,281
  
 
$
7.00
  


  
  
  
 
 




  89 


Table of Contents
During the year ended December 31, 2009, we made a grant of 1,000,000 restricted stock
units to our Chief Executive Officer. These restricted stock units had a fair value of approximately $6,014 on the date of issuance. Of these restricted stock units, a total of 600,000 (the “Service Awards”) vest in four equal installments
on the first, second, third and fourth year anniversary of December 31, 2008, and a total of 400,000 (the “Performance Awards I”) vest in four installments of up to 100,000 on the first, up to 200,000 on the second, up to 300,000 on
the third and up to 400,000 on the fourth year anniversary of December 31, 2008, to the extent certain market conditions are met. The market conditions are met when certain stock price levels are achieved and maintained for certain time periods
between the award issuance date and December 31, 2013. Both the Service Awards and Performance Awards I require the Chief Executive Officer to be employed by the Company at the applicable vesting dates, subject to certain clauses in the award
agreement. The Service Awards are amortized over the four year service period. The Performance Awards I are amortized over the service period of each installment. As of December 31, 2011, there have been 525,000 Service and Performance Awards I
issued.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, we made a grant of 473,600 restricted stock units to certain members of
management (the “Performance Awards II”). The Performance Awards II had a fair value of approximately $1,392 on the date of issuance and will vest in four installments on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary of
June 30, 2009, to the extent certain service periods and market conditions are both met. The market conditions are met when certain stock price levels are achieved and maintained for certain time periods between the award issuance date and
June 30, 2014. The Performance Awards II are amortized over the service period of each installment. In conjunction with the issuance of the Performance Awards II, the members of management were also granted cash awards with a fair value of
$792. The cash awards vested on June 30, 2010 and compensation expense was recognized on a straight-line basis over the service period. In order to receive the Performance Awards II, the members of management are required to be employed by the
Company at the applicable vesting dates, subject to certain clauses in the award agreements. As of December 31, 2011, there have been 39,100 Performance Awards II issued.  The fair value of the Performance Awards I and the Performance Awards II at issuance was determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model with the following assumptions: 
 












 
  
PerformanceAwards I
 
 
PerformanceAwards II
 

 Expected dividend yield
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 

 Expected stock volatility
  
 
57.18% to 119.55
% 
 
 
76.29% to 162.92
% 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
0.40% to 1.84
% 
 
 
0.43% to 2.38
% 

 Expected life (years)
  
 
1-4
  
 
 
1-4
  

 Grant Date Fair value
  
$
4.49
  
 
$
2.94
  

During the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, certain members of management were granted
cash awards with a fair value of $1,810 and $688, respectively. The cash awards vest on June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011, respectively, and compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the service period. In order to
receive the cash awards, the members of management are required to be employed by the Company at the vesting date, subject to certain clauses of the award agreements. 
14. Derivatives 
Our objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage our cash flow
volatility and exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, we primarily use interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of
variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount.  Our Series F Preferred Stock is subject to a coupon rate reset. The coupon rate resets every quarter at 2.375% plus the greater of i) the 30 year Treasury CMT Rate, ii) the 10 year
Treasury CMT Rate or iii) 3-month 
  90 


Table of Contents

LIBOR. For the fourth quarter of 2011, the new coupon rate was 5.365% (see Note 7). In October 2008, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional value of $50,000 to
mitigate our exposure to floating interest rates related to the forecasted reset rate of the coupon rate of our Series F Preferred Stock (the “Series F Agreement”). This Series F Agreement fixes the 30-year
U.S. Treasury rate at 5.2175%. Accounting guidance for derivatives does not permit hedge accounting treatment related to equity instruments and therefore the mark to market gains or losses related to this agreement are recorded in the statement
of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, losses of $1,718 and $1,107, respectively, is recognized as Mark-to-Market Loss on Interest Rate Protection Agreements. Quarterly payments are treated as a
component of the mark to market gains or losses and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, which totaled $574 and $492, respectively.  The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in Other Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) and is subsequently
reclassified to earnings through interest expense over the life of the derivative or over the life of the debt. In the next 12 months, we will amortize approximately $2,255 into net income by increasing interest expense for interest rate
protection agreements we settled in previous periods.  The following is a summary of the terms of our derivatives and their
fair values, which are included in Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities, Net on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets:   




























 Hedge Product
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
Strike
 
 
TradeDate
 
  
MaturityDate
 
  
Fair ValueAs
ofDecember 31,2011
 
 
Fair ValueAs
ofDecember 31,2010
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:
  



  



 



  



  



 




 Series F Agreement*
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
5.2175
% 
 
  
October2008
    
  
  
October1, 2013
    
  
$
(1,667
) 
 
$
(523
) 
  


*
Fair value excludes quarterly settlement payment due on Series F Agreement. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the outstanding payable was $280 and $194,
respectively. 
The following is a summary of the impact of the derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships on the statement of
operations and the statement of OCI for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:   














 
  
 
  
Year Ended
 

 Interest Rate Products
  
 Location on Statement
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Loss Recognized in OCI (Effective Portion)
  
Mark-to-Market on Interest Rate Protection Agreements (OCI)
  
$
—  
  
 
$
990
  

 Amortization Reclassified from OCI into Earnings
  
Interest Expense
  
$
(2,166
) 
 
$
(2,108
) 

During 2010, the 2006 Land/Development Joint Venture had interest rate protection agreements outstanding which
effectively converted floating rate debt to fixed rate debt on a portion of its total variable debt. The hedge relationships were considered highly effective and as such, for the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded $1,137 in unrealized
gain, representing our 10% share, offset by $414 of income tax provision, which is shown in Mark-to-Market on Interest Rate Protection Agreements, Net of Income Tax, in OCI. In connection with the sale of our equity interest of the 2006
Land/Development Joint Venture on August 5, 2010, we wrote off $1,625 that was recorded in OCI related to our 10% share of unrealized loss related to the interest rate protection agreements. 
  91 


Table of Contents
Our agreements with our derivative counterparties contain provisions where if we default on
any of our indebtedness, then we could also be declared in default on our derivative obligations subject to certain thresholds. 
The guidance for fair value measurement of financial instruments includes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs
used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly
observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.  The following table sets forth our financial liabilities that are accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010: 
 




















 
  
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements at
ReportingDate Using:
 

 Description
  
Fair Value
 
 
Quoted Prices inActive
MarketsforIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs
(Level 2)
 
  
UnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 

 Liabilities:
  



 



  



  




 Series F Agreement at December 31, 2011
  
$
(1,667
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
(1,667
) 

 Series F Agreement at December 31, 2010
  
$
(523
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
(523
) 

The valuation of the Series F Agreement is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques including discounted
cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of the instrument. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the agreements including the period to maturity. In adjusting the fair value of the interest rate protection agreements for the effect
of nonperformance risk, we have considered the impact of netting and any applicable credit enhancements. To comply with the provisions of fair value measurement, we incorporated a credit valuation adjustment (“CVA”) to appropriately
reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty’s nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. However, assessing significance of inputs is a matter of judgment that should consider a variety of factors. One
factor we consider is the CVA and its materiality to the overall valuation of the derivatives on the balance sheet and to their related changes in fair value. We consider the Series F Agreement to be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy
due to a significant number of unobservable inputs. The Series F Agreement swaps a fixed rate 5.2175% for floating rate payments based on 30-year Treasury. No market observable prices exist for long-dated Treasuries. Therefore, we have classified
the Series F Agreement in its entirety as a Level 3.  The following table presents a reconciliation of our liabilities
classified as Level 3 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:   








 
  
Fair
ValueMeasurementsUsing SignificantUnobservable Inputs(Level 3) Derivatives
 

 Ending asset balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
93
  

 Total unrealized losses:
  




 Mark-to-Market on Series F Agreement
  
 
(616
) 


  
  
  
 

 Ending liability balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
(523
) 

 Total unrealized losses:
  




 Mark-to-Market on Series F Agreement
  
 
(1,144
) 


  
  
  
 

 Ending liability balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
(1,667
) 


  
  
  
 

  92 


Table of Contents
15. Commitments and Contingencies 
Twelve properties have leases granting the tenants options to purchase the property. Such options are exercisable at
various times at appraised fair market value or at a fixed purchase price in excess of our depreciated cost of the asset. We have no notice of any exercise of any tenant purchase option. 
At December 31, 2011, we had letters of credit outstanding and performance bonds in the aggregate amount of $6,780. These letters of
credit expire between February 2012 and July 2013.  In the normal course of business, we are involved in legal actions arising
from the ownership of our industrial properties. In our opinion, the liabilities, if any, that may ultimately result from such legal actions are not expected to have a materially adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or
liquidity.  Ground and Operating Lease Agreements 
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized $1,955, $3,047 and $4,181, respectively, in operating and ground
lease expense.  Future minimum rental payments under the terms of all non-cancelable ground and operating leases under which
we are the lessee, offset by sub-lease rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases, as of December 31, 2011, are as follows:   








 2012
  
$
 1,892
  

 2013
  
 
1,724
  

 2014
  
 
1,448
  

 2015
  
 
1,319
  

 2016
  
 
1,321
  

 Thereafter
  
 
28,052
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
35,756
  


  
  
  
 

16. Subsequent Events 
From January 1, 2012 to February 28, 2012, we acquired one industrial property comprising approximately 0.4 million
square feet of GLA in connection with the purchase of the 85% equity interest in one property from the institutional investor in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture. The acquisition was funded through the assumption of a mortgage loan in the amount of
$12,026, which was subsequently paid off at closing and a cash payment of $8,324. We will account for this transaction as a step acquisition utilizing the purchase method of accounting. There were no industrial properties sold during this time.
 From January 1, 2012 to February 28, 2012, we repurchased and retired $430 of our senior unsecured notes maturing in 2028 for
a payment of $406. 
17. Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited) 
The following tables summarize our quarterly financial information. The first, second and third fiscal quarters of 2011
and all fiscal quarters in 2010 have been revised in accordance with guidance on accounting for discontinued operations. The results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2010 include $2,387 which should have been recorded as part of the
impairment charge recorded during the third quarter in 2010. Management evaluated this impairment charge and believes it is not material to the results of operations of either quarter. 
  93 


Table of Contents
Net loss available to common stockholders and basic and diluted EPS from net loss available
to common stockholders has not been affected.   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 

 Total Revenues
  
$
80,186
  
 
$
79,386
  
 
$
78,586
  
 
$
79,677
  

 Equity in Income of Joint Ventures
  
 
36
  
 
 
99
  
 
 
772
  
 
 
73
  

 Noncontrolling Interest Allocable to Continuing Operations
  
 
877
  
 
 
526
  
 
 
952
  
 
 
798
  

 Loss from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Tax and Noncontrolling Interest
  
 
(6,611
) 
 
 
(3,260
) 
 
 
(10,450
) 
 
 
(8,727
) 

 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Tax
  
 
3,105
  
 
 
3,692
  
 
 
5,947
  
 
 
9,349
  

 Noncontrolling Interest Allocable to Discontinued Operations
  
 
(224
) 
 
 
(236
) 
 
 
(349
) 
 
 
(543
) 

 Gain on Sale of Real Estate, Net of Income Tax
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
—  
  

 Noncontrolling Interest Allocable to Gain on Sale of Real Estate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(56
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (Loss) Income Attributable to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.
  
 
(3,730
) 
 
 
196
  
 
 
(3,990
) 
 
 
79
  

 Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
(4,927
) 
 
 
(4,947
) 
 
 
(4,928
) 
 
 
(4,763
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Available to Common Stockholders
  
$
(8,657
) 
 
$
(4,751
) 
 
$
(8,918
) 
 
$
(4,684
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share:
  



 



 



 




 Loss From Continuing Operations Available
  
$
(0.16
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
(0.17
) 
 
$
(0.16
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from Discontinued Operations
  
$
0.04
  
 
$
0.04
  
 
$
0.07
  
 
$
0.10
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Available to Common Stockholders
  
$
(0.12
) 
 
$
(0.06
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
(0.05
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding
  
 
70,639
  
 
 
79,727
  
 
 
85,930
  
 
 
85,941
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  94 


Table of Contents
 




















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 

 Total Revenues
  
$
82,709
  
 
$
80,756
  
 
$
78,186
  
 
$
80,127
  

 Equity in (Loss) Income of Joint Ventures
  
 
(459
) 
 
 
582
  
 
 
(398
) 
 
 
950
  

 Noncontrolling Interest Allocable to Continuing Operations
  
 
2,309
  
 
 
1,870
  
 
 
7,419
  
 
 
2,065
  

 Loss from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Tax and Noncontrolling Interest
  
 
(21,776
) 
 
 
(17,308
) 
 
 
(81,979
) 
 
 
(20,973
) 

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Tax
  
 
4,544
  
 
 
4,069
  
 
 
(72,873
) 
 
 
(2,177
) 

 Noncontrolling Interest Allocable to Discontinued Operations
  
 
(356
) 
 
 
(309
) 
 
 
5,664
  
 
 
176
  

 Gain (Loss) on Sale of Real Estate, Net of Income Tax
  
 
731
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(214
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Noncontrolling Interest Allocable to Gain (Loss) on Sale of Real Estate
  
 
(57
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Attributable to First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc.
  
 
(16,914
) 
 
 
(13,548
) 
 
 
(149,385
) 
 
 
(22,974
) 

 Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
(4,960
) 
 
 
(4,979
) 
 
 
(4,884
) 
 
 
(4,854
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Available to Common Stockholders
  
$
(21,874
) 
 
$
(18,527
) 
 
$
(154,269
) 
 
$
(27,828
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share:
  



 



 



 




 Loss From Continuing Operations Available
  
$
(0.42
) 
 
$
(0.35
) 
 
$
(1.38
) 
 
$
(0.40
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations
  
$
0.07
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
(1.07
) 
 
$
(0.03
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss Available to Common Stockholders
  
$
(0.35
) 
 
$
(0.29
) 
 
$
(2.44
) 
 
$
(0.43
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding
  
 
61,797
  
 
 
62,838
  
 
 
63,100
  
 
 
64,049
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  95 


Table of Contents
 
SCHEDULE
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC. 
SCHEDULE III:  REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011
 (Dollars in thousand)   














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Atlanta
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 4250 River Green Parkway
 
Duluth, GA
 
$
—  
  
 
$
264
  
 
$
1,522
  
 
$
(67
) 
 
$
214
  
 
$
1,505
  
 
$
1,719
  
 
$
710
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3450 Corporate Parkway
 
Duluth, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
506
  
 
 
2,904
  
 
 
(823
) 
 
 
284
  
 
 
2,303
  
 
 
2,587
  
 
 
1,214
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1650 Highway 155
 
McDonough, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
788
  
 
 
4,544
  
 
 
(1,205
) 
 
 
365
  
 
 
3,762
  
 
 
4,127
  
 
 
2,073
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1665 Dogwood Drive
 
Conyers, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
3,662
  
 
 
587
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
4,249
  
 
 
4,884
  
 
 
1,789
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1715 Dogwood
 
Conyers, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
288
  
 
 
1,675
  
 
 
783
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
2,518
  
 
 
2,746
  
 
 
893
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11235 Harland Drive
 
Covington, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
169
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
908
  
 
 
1,033
  
 
 
377
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4051 Southmeadow Parkway
 
Atlanta, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
726
  
 
 
4,130
  
 
 
875
  
 
 
726
  
 
 
5,005
  
 
 
5,731
  
 
 
2,002
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4071 Southmeadow Parkway
 
Atlanta, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
750
  
 
 
4,460
  
 
 
1,631
  
 
 
828
  
 
 
6,013
  
 
 
6,841
  
 
 
2,435
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4081 Southmeadow Parkway
 
Atlanta, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,012
  
 
 
5,918
  
 
 
1,651
  
 
 
1,157
  
 
 
7,424
  
 
 
8,581
  
 
 
3,048
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5570 Tulane Dr (d)
 
Atlanta, GA
 
 
2,281
  
 
 
527
  
 
 
2,984
  
 
 
990
  
 
 
546
  
 
 
3,955
  
 
 
4,501
  
 
 
1,369
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 955 Cobb Place
 
Kennesaw, GA
 
 
3,018
  
 
 
780
  
 
 
4,420
  
 
 
754
  
 
 
804
  
 
 
5,150
  
 
 
5,954
  
 
 
2,010
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1005 Sigman Road
 
Conyers, GA
 
 
2,118
  
 
 
566
  
 
 
3,134
  
 
 
433
  
 
 
574
  
 
 
3,559
  
 
 
4,133
  
 
 
1,034
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2050 East Park Drive
 
Conyers, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
452
  
 
 
2,504
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
2,640
  
 
 
3,099
  
 
 
799
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1256 Oakbrook Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
1,243
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
1,907
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
339
  
 
 
2,114
  
 
 
2,453
  
 
 
523
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1265 Oakbrook Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
1,170
  
 
 
307
  
 
 
1,742
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
309
  
 
 
1,999
  
 
 
2,308
  
 
 
510
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1280 Oakbrook Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
1,211
  
 
 
281
  
 
 
1,592
  
 
 
313
  
 
 
283
  
 
 
1,903
  
 
 
2,186
  
 
 
550
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1300 Oakbrook Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
1,699
  
 
 
420
  
 
 
2,381
  
 
 
267
  
 
 
423
  
 
 
2,645
  
 
 
3,068
  
 
 
685
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1325 Oakbrook Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
1,349
  
 
 
332
  
 
 
1,879
  
 
 
224
  
 
 
334
  
 
 
2,101
  
 
 
2,435
  
 
 
526
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1351 Oakbrook Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
370
  
 
 
2,099
  
 
 
(992
) 
 
 
146
  
 
 
1,331
  
 
 
1,477
  
 
 
584
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1346 Oakbrook Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
740
  
 
 
4,192
  
 
 
(715
) 
 
 
352
  
 
 
3,865
  
 
 
4,217
  
 
 
1,312
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1412 Oakbrook Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
313
  
 
 
1,776
  
 
 
(1,053
) 
 
 
101
  
 
 
935
  
 
 
1,036
  
 
 
438
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3060 South Park Blvd
 
Ellenwood, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,600
  
 
 
12,464
  
 
 
1,590
  
 
 
1,604
  
 
 
14,050
  
 
 
15,654
  
 
 
3,469
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Greenwood Industrial Park
 
McDonough, GA
 
 
4,580
  
 
 
1,550
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,485
  
 
 
1,550
  
 
 
7,485
  
 
 
9,035
  
 
 
1,384
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 46 Kent Drive
 
Cartersville GA
 
 
1,779
  
 
 
794
  
 
 
2,252
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
798
  
 
 
2,254
  
 
 
3,052
  
 
 
556
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 100 Dorris Williams
 
Villa Rica GA
 
 
1,640
  
 
 
401
  
 
 
3,754
  
 
 
(749
) 
 
 
406
  
 
 
3,000
  
 
 
3,406
  
 
 
548
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 605 Stonehill Drive
 
Atlanta, GA
 
 
1,571
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
1,979
  
 
 
(38
) 
 
 
490
  
 
 
1,936
  
 
 
2,426
  
 
 
1,155
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5095 Phillip Lee Drive
 
Atlanta, GA
 
 
4,982
  
 
 
735
  
 
 
3,627
  
 
 
588
  
 
 
740
  
 
 
4,210
  
 
 
4,950
  
 
 
1,763
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6514 Warren Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
510
  
 
 
1,250
  
 
 
(61
) 
 
 
513
  
 
 
1,186
  
 
 
1,699
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6544 Warren Drive
 
Norcross, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
711
  
 
 
2,310
  
 
 
284
  
 
 
715
  
 
 
2,590
  
 
 
3,305
  
 
 
570
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5356 E. Ponce De Leon
 
Stone Mountain,GA
 
 
2,765
  
 
 
604
  
 
 
3,888
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
610
  
 
 
4,090
  
 
 
4,700
  
 
 
1,498
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-1



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 5390 E. Ponce De Leon
 
Stone Mountain, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
1,791
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
1,807
  
 
 
2,209
  
 
 
483
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 195 & 197 Collins Boulevard
 
Athens, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,410
  
 
 
5,344
  
 
 
(1,742
) 
 
 
989
  
 
 
4,023
  
 
 
5,012
  
 
 
2,520
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1755 Enterprise Drive
 
Buford, GA
 
 
1,529
  
 
 
712
  
 
 
2,118
  
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
716
  
 
 
2,104
  
 
 
2,820
  
 
 
568
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4555 Atwater Court
 
Buford, GA
 
 
2,582
  
 
 
881
  
 
 
3,550
  
 
 
567
  
 
 
885
  
 
 
4,113
  
 
 
4,998
  
 
 
1,191
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 80 Liberty Industrial Parkway
 
McDonough, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
756
  
 
 
3,695
  
 
 
(1,333
) 
 
 
467
  
 
 
2,651
  
 
 
3,118
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 596 Bonnie Valentine
 
Pendergrass, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,580
  
 
 
21,730
  
 
 
2,585
  
 
 
2,594
  
 
 
24,301
  
 
 
26,895
  
 
 
3,435
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11415 Old Roswell Road
 
Alpharetta, GA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,403
  
 
 
1,912
  
 
 
491
  
 
 
2,428
  
 
 
2,378
  
 
 
4,806
  
 
 
476
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Baltimore
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 1820 Portal
 
Baltimore, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
884
  
 
 
4,891
  
 
 
1,025
  
 
 
899
  
 
 
5,901
  
 
 
6,800
  
 
 
1,839
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9700 Martin Luther King Hwy
 
Lanham, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
700
  
 
 
1,920
  
 
 
377
  
 
 
700
  
 
 
2,297
  
 
 
2,997
  
 
 
530
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9730 Martin Luther King Hwy
 
Lanham, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
955
  
 
 
418
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
1,373
  
 
 
1,873
  
 
 
452
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4621 Boston Way
 
Lanham, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,100
  
 
 
3,070
  
 
 
298
  
 
 
1,100
  
 
 
3,368
  
 
 
4,468
  
 
 
839
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4720 Boston Way
 
Lanham, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,200
  
 
 
2,174
  
 
 
497
  
 
 
1,200
  
 
 
2,671
  
 
 
3,871
  
 
 
640
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 22520 Randolph Drive
 
Dulles, VA
 
 
7,745
  
 
 
3,200
  
 
 
8,187
  
 
 
(150
) 
 
 
3,208
  
 
 
8,029
  
 
 
11,237
  
 
 
1,815
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 22630 Dulles Summit Court
 
Dulles, VA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,200
  
 
 
9,346
  
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
2,206
  
 
 
9,320
  
 
 
11,526
  
 
 
2,117
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4201 Forbes Boulevard
 
Lanham, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
356
  
 
 
1,823
  
 
 
341
  
 
 
375
  
 
 
2,145
  
 
 
2,520
  
 
 
573
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4370-4383 Lottsford Vista Rd.
 
Lanham, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
279
  
 
 
1,358
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
296
  
 
 
1,561
  
 
 
1,857
  
 
 
429
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4400 Lottsford Vista Rd.
 
Lanham, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
351
  
 
 
1,955
  
 
 
229
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
2,163
  
 
 
2,535
  
 
 
525
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4420 Lottsford Vista Road
 
Lanham, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
539
  
 
 
2,196
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
568
  
 
 
2,408
  
 
 
2,976
  
 
 
643
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11204 McCormick Road
 
Hunt Valley, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,017
  
 
 
3,132
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
1,038
  
 
 
3,162
  
 
 
4,200
  
 
 
932
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11110 Pepper Road
 
Hunt Valley, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
2,529
  
 
 
376
  
 
 
938
  
 
 
2,885
  
 
 
3,823
  
 
 
836
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11100-11120 Gilroy Road
 
Hunt Valley, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
901
  
 
 
1,455
  
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
919
  
 
 
1,382
  
 
 
2,301
  
 
 
334
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 318 Clubhouse Lane
 
Hunt Valley, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
701
  
 
 
1,691
  
 
 
(47
) 
 
 
718
  
 
 
1,627
  
 
 
2,345
  
 
 
387
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 10709 Gilroy Road
 
Hunt Valley, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
913
  
 
 
2,705
  
 
 
(113
) 
 
 
913
  
 
 
2,592
  
 
 
3,505
  
 
 
889
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 10707 Gilroy Road
 
Hunt Valley, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,111
  
 
 
3,819
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
1,136
  
 
 
3,849
  
 
 
4,985
  
 
 
980
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 38 Loveton Circle
 
Sparks, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,648
  
 
 
2,151
  
 
 
(226
) 
 
 
1,690
  
 
 
1,883
  
 
 
3,573
  
 
 
493
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7120-7132 Ambassador Road
 
Baltimore, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
829
  
 
 
1,329
  
 
 
406
  
 
 
847
  
 
 
1,717
  
 
 
2,564
  
 
 
361
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7142 Ambassador Road
 
Hunt Valley, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
924
  
 
 
2,876
  
 
 
2,374
  
 
 
942
  
 
 
5,232
  
 
 
6,174
  
 
 
830
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7144-7162 Ambassador Road
 
Baltimore, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
979
  
 
 
1,672
  
 
 
433
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
2,084
  
 
 
3,084
  
 
 
759
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7223-7249 Ambassador Road
 
Woodlawn, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,283
  
 
 
2,674
  
 
 
(40
) 
 
 
1,311
  
 
 
2,606
  
 
 
3,917
  
 
 
877
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7200 Rutherford Road
 
Baltimore, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,032
  
 
 
2,150
  
 
 
242
  
 
 
1,054
  
 
 
2,370
  
 
 
3,424
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2700 Lord Baltimore Road
 
Baltimore, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
875
  
 
 
1,826
  
 
 
1,107
  
 
 
897
  
 
 
2,911
  
 
 
3,808
  
 
 
955
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1225 Bengies Road
 
Baltimore, MD
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,640
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
14,660
  
 
 
2,823
  
 
 
14,747
  
 
 
17,570
  
 
 
2,028
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Central Pennsylvania
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 1214-B Freedom Road
 
CranberryTownship, PA
 
 
1,362
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
994
  
 
 
613
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
1,438
  
 
 
1,638
  
 
 
1,099
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-2



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 401 Russell Drive
 
Middletown, PA
 
 
1,240
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
857
  
 
 
1,755
  
 
 
287
  
 
 
2,587
  
 
 
2,874
  
 
 
1,755
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2700 Commerce Drive
 
Middletown, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
997
  
 
 
856
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
1,843
  
 
 
2,049
  
 
 
1,214
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2701 Commerce Drive
 
Middletown, PA
 
 
1,883
  
 
 
141
  
 
 
859
  
 
 
1,263
  
 
 
164
  
 
 
2,099
  
 
 
2,263
  
 
 
1,245
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2780 Commerce Drive
 
Middletown, PA
 
 
1,682
  
 
 
113
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
1,165
  
 
 
209
  
 
 
1,812
  
 
 
2,021
  
 
 
1,238
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 350 Old Silver Spring Road
 
Mechanicsburg, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
510
  
 
 
2,890
  
 
 
6,396
  
 
 
541
  
 
 
9,255
  
 
 
9,796
  
 
 
3,020
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 16522 Hunters Green Parkway
 
Hagerstown, MD
 
 
12,962
  
 
 
1,390
  
 
 
13,104
  
 
 
3,893
  
 
 
1,863
  
 
 
16,524
  
 
 
18,387
  
 
 
3,480
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 18212 Shawley Drive
 
Hagerstown, MD
 
 
6,748
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
5,847
  
 
 
1,198
  
 
 
1,016
  
 
 
7,029
  
 
 
8,045
  
 
 
1,699
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 37 Valleyview Business Park
 
Jessup, PA
 
 
2,926
  
 
 
542
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,974
  
 
 
532
  
 
 
2,984
  
 
 
3,516
  
 
 
523
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 301 Railroad Avenue
 
Shiremanstown, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,181
  
 
 
4,447
  
 
 
2,412
  
 
 
1,328
  
 
 
6,712
  
 
 
8,040
  
 
 
1,870
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 431 Railroad Avenue
 
Shiremanstown, PA
 
 
8,882
  
 
 
1,293
  
 
 
7,164
  
 
 
2,063
  
 
 
1,341
  
 
 
9,179
  
 
 
10,520
  
 
 
2,697
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6951 Allentown Blvd
 
Harrisburg, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
585
  
 
 
3,176
  
 
 
124
  
 
 
601
  
 
 
3,284
  
 
 
3,885
  
 
 
811
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 320 Museum Road
 
Washington, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
1,819
  
 
 
(162
) 
 
 
178
  
 
 
1,680
  
 
 
1,858
  
 
 
632
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1351 Eisenhower Blvd., Bldg 1
 
Harrisburg, PA
 
 
1,920
  
 
 
382
  
 
 
2,343
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
387
  
 
 
2,377
  
 
 
2,764
  
 
 
524
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1351 Eisenhower Blvd., Bldg 2
 
Harrisburg, PA
 
 
1,417
  
 
 
436
  
 
 
1,587
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
1,632
  
 
 
2,075
  
 
 
411
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1490 Commerce Avenue
 
Carlisle, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,500
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,845
  
 
 
2,341
  
 
 
13,004
  
 
 
15,345
  
 
 
1,579
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 600 First Avenue
 
Gouldsboro, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,022
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
58,189
  
 
 
7,019
  
 
 
58,192
  
 
 
65,211
  
 
 
5,010
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 225 Cross Farm Lane
 
York, PA
 
 
18,885
  
 
 
4,718
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,567
  
 
 
4,715
  
 
 
23,570
  
 
 
28,285
  
 
 
2,510
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Chicago
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 720-730 Landwehr Road
 
Northbrook, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
521
  
 
 
2,982
  
 
 
1,076
  
 
 
521
  
 
 
4,058
  
 
 
4,579
  
 
 
1,983
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 20W201 101st Street
 
Lemont, IL
 
 
4,149
  
 
 
967
  
 
 
5,554
  
 
 
1,579
  
 
 
968
  
 
 
7,132
  
 
 
8,100
  
 
 
2,712
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6750 South Sayre Avenue
 
Bedford Park, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
224
  
 
 
1,309
  
 
 
555
  
 
 
224
  
 
 
1,864
  
 
 
2,088
  
 
 
754
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 585 Slawin Court
 
Mount Prospect, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
611
  
 
 
3,505
  
 
 
1,644
  
 
 
525
  
 
 
5,235
  
 
 
5,760
  
 
 
2,387
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2300 Windsor Court
 
Addison, IL
 
 
3,930
  
 
 
688
  
 
 
3,943
  
 
 
1,255
  
 
 
696
  
 
 
5,190
  
 
 
5,886
  
 
 
2,325
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3505 Thayer Court
 
Aurora, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
430
  
 
 
2,472
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
430
  
 
 
2,868
  
 
 
3,298
  
 
 
1,208
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 305-311 Era Drive
 
Northbrook, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
1,154
  
 
 
916
  
 
 
205
  
 
 
2,065
  
 
 
2,270
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3150-3160 MacArthur Boulevard
 
Northbrook, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
429
  
 
 
2,518
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
429
  
 
 
2,653
  
 
 
3,082
  
 
 
1,143
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 365 North Avenue
 
Carol Stream, IL
 
 
6,256
  
 
 
1,042
  
 
 
6,882
  
 
 
2,621
  
 
 
1,073
  
 
 
9,472
  
 
 
10,545
  
 
 
4,093
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11241 Melrose Street
 
Franklin Park, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
332
  
 
 
1,931
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
2,097
  
 
 
2,305
  
 
 
1,163
  
 
 
1995
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11939 S Central Avenue
 
Alsip, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,208
  
 
 
6,843
  
 
 
2,633
  
 
 
1,305
  
 
 
9,379
  
 
 
10,684
  
 
 
3,079
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 405 East Shawmut
 
LaGrange, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
2,083
  
 
 
(1,046
) 
 
 
81
  
 
 
1,324
  
 
 
1,405
  
 
 
830
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1010-50 Sesame Street
 
Bensenville, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
979
  
 
 
5,546
  
 
 
2,782
  
 
 
1,048
  
 
 
8,259
  
 
 
9,307
  
 
 
2,698
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2120-24 Roberts
 
Broadview, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
1,248
  
 
 
219
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
1,456
  
 
 
1,687
  
 
 
501
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 800 Business Center Drive
 
Mount Prospect, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
631
  
 
 
3,493
  
 
 
328
  
 
 
666
  
 
 
3,786
  
 
 
4,452
  
 
 
1,034
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 580 Slawin Court
 
Mount Prospect, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
233
  
 
 
1,292
  
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
162
  
 
 
1,334
  
 
 
1,496
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 19W661 101st Street
 
Lemont, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,200
  
 
 
6,643
  
 
 
1,957
  
 
 
1,220
  
 
 
8,580
  
 
 
9,800
  
 
 
2,899
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 175 Wall Street
 
Glendale Heights,IL
 
 
1,497
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
2,363
  
 
 
163
  
 
 
433
  
 
 
2,520
  
 
 
2,953
  
 
 
658
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-3



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 800-820 Thorndale Avenue
 
Bensenville, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
751
  
 
 
4,159
  
 
 
2,336
  
 
 
761
  
 
 
6,485
  
 
 
7,246
  
 
 
2,126
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 251 Airport Road
 
North Aurora, IL
 
 
5,325
  
 
 
983
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,711
  
 
 
983
  
 
 
6,711
  
 
 
7,694
  
 
 
1,589
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1661 Feehanville Drive
 
Mount Prospect, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
985
  
 
 
5,455
  
 
 
2,243
  
 
 
1,044
  
 
 
7,639
  
 
 
8,683
  
 
 
2,224
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1850 Touhy & 1158 McCage Ave.
 
Elk Grove Village, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,500
  
 
 
4,842
  
 
 
(95
) 
 
 
1,514
  
 
 
4,733
  
 
 
6,247
  
 
 
1,175
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1088-1130 Thorndale Avenue
 
Bensenville, IL
 
 
-
  
 
 
2,103
  
 
 
3,674
  
 
 
249
  
 
 
2,108
  
 
 
3,918
  
 
 
6,026
  
 
 
1,220
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 855-891 Busse Rd.
 
Bensenville, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,597
  
 
 
2,767
  
 
 
(72
) 
 
 
1,601
  
 
 
2,691
  
 
 
4,292
  
 
 
821
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1060-1074 W. Thorndale Ave
 
Bensenville, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,704
  
 
 
2,108
  
 
 
298
  
 
 
1,709
  
 
 
2,401
  
 
 
4,110
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 400 Crossroads Pkwy
 
Bolingbrook, IL
 
 
5,658
  
 
 
1,178
  
 
 
9,453
  
 
 
927
  
 
 
1,181
  
 
 
10,377
  
 
 
11,558
  
 
 
2,508
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7609 W. Industrial Drive
 
Forest Park, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,207
  
 
 
2,343
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
1,213
  
 
 
2,547
  
 
 
3,760
  
 
 
833
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7801 W. Industrial Drive
 
Forest Park, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,215
  
 
 
3,020
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
1,220
  
 
 
3,255
  
 
 
4,475
  
 
 
866
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 825 E. 26th Street
 
LaGrange, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,547
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
2,639
  
 
 
1,617
  
 
 
4,647
  
 
 
6,264
  
 
 
1,580
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 725 Kimberly Drive
 
Carol Stream, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
793
  
 
 
1,395
  
 
 
203
  
 
 
801
  
 
 
1,590
  
 
 
2,391
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 17001 S. Vincennes
 
Thornton, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
497
  
 
 
504
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
513
  
 
 
512
  
 
 
1,025
  
 
 
249
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1111 Davis Road
 
Elgin, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
998
  
 
 
1,859
  
 
 
910
  
 
 
1,046
  
 
 
2,721
  
 
 
3,767
  
 
 
1,219
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2900 W. 166th Street
 
Markham, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,132
  
 
 
4,293
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
1,134
  
 
 
5,014
  
 
 
6,148
  
 
 
1,456
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 555 W. Algonquin Rd
 
Arlington Heights, IL
 
 
1,912
  
 
 
574
  
 
 
741
  
 
 
2,053
  
 
 
579
  
 
 
2,789
  
 
 
3,368
  
 
 
524
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7000 W. 60th Street
 
Chicago, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
609
  
 
 
932
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
667
  
 
 
1,111
  
 
 
1,778
  
 
 
575
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9501 Nevada
 
Franklin Park, IL
 
 
7,568
  
 
 
2,721
  
 
 
5,630
  
 
 
101
  
 
 
2,737
  
 
 
5,715
  
 
 
8,452
  
 
 
930
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1501 Oakton Street
 
Elk Grove Village, IL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,369
  
 
 
6,121
  
 
 
139
  
 
 
3,482
  
 
 
6,147
  
 
 
9,629
  
 
 
1,224
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 16500 W. 103rd Street
 
Woodridge, IL
 
 
2,785
  
 
 
744
  
 
 
2,458
  
 
 
405
  
 
 
760
  
 
 
2,848
  
 
 
3,608
  
 
 
526
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Cincinnati
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 9900-9970 Princeton
 
Cincinnati, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
545
  
 
 
3,088
  
 
 
1,443
  
 
 
566
  
 
 
4,510
  
 
 
5,076
  
 
 
1,700
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2940 Highland Avenue
 
Cincinnati, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,717
  
 
 
9,730
  
 
 
(650
) 
 
 
1,146
  
 
 
9,651
  
 
 
10,797
  
 
 
4,440
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4700-4750 Creek Road
 
Blue Ash, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,080
  
 
 
6,118
  
 
 
1,126
  
 
 
1,109
  
 
 
7,215
  
 
 
8,324
  
 
 
2,593
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 901 Pleasant Valley Drive
 
Springboro, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
304
  
 
 
1,721
  
 
 
(406
) 
 
 
190
  
 
 
1,429
  
 
 
1,619
  
 
 
609
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4436 Mulhauser Road
 
Hamilton, OH
 
 
3,813
  
 
 
630
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,081
  
 
 
630
  
 
 
5,081
  
 
 
5,711
  
 
 
1,146
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4438 Mulhauser Road
 
Hamilton, OH
 
 
4,946
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,738
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
6,738
  
 
 
7,517
  
 
 
1,840
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 420 Wards Corner Road
 
Loveland, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
1,083
  
 
 
695
  
 
 
606
  
 
 
1,772
  
 
 
2,378
  
 
 
487
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 422 Wards Corner Road
 
Loveland, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
1,811
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
592
  
 
 
1,793
  
 
 
2,385
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4663 Dues Drive
 
Westchester, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
858
  
 
 
2,273
  
 
 
962
  
 
 
875
  
 
 
3,218
  
 
 
4,093
  
 
 
2,104
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9345 Princeton-Glendale Road
 
Westchester, OH
 
 
1,553
  
 
 
818
  
 
 
1,648
  
 
 
357
  
 
 
840
  
 
 
1,983
  
 
 
2,823
  
 
 
732
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9525 Glades Drive
 
Westchester, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
347
  
 
 
1,323
  
 
 
235
  
 
 
355
  
 
 
1,550
  
 
 
1,905
  
 
 
423
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9776-9876 Windisch Road
 
Westchester, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
392
  
 
 
1,744
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
394
  
 
 
1,741
  
 
 
2,135
  
 
 
348
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9810-9822 Windisch Road
 
Westchester, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
395
  
 
 
2,541
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
2,566
  
 
 
2,963
  
 
 
399
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9842-9862 Windisch Road
 
Westchester, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
506
  
 
 
3,148
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
508
  
 
 
3,214
  
 
 
3,722
  
 
 
454
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9872-9898 Windisch Road
 
Westchester, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
546
  
 
 
3,039
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
548
  
 
 
3,099
  
 
 
3,647
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9902-9922 Windisch Road
 
Westchester, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
4,003
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
627
  
 
 
4,207
  
 
 
4,834
  
 
 
782
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

  S-4



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cleveland
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 31311 Emerald Valley Pkwy.
 
Glenwillow, OH
 
 
9,674
  
 
 
681
  
 
 
11,838
  
 
 
968
  
 
 
691
  
 
 
12,796
  
 
 
13,487
  
 
 
2,583
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 30333 Emerald Valley Pkwy.
 
Glenwillow, OH
 
 
4,891
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
5,447
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
475
  
 
 
5,572
  
 
 
6,047
  
 
 
1,321
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7800 Cochran Road
 
Glenwillow, OH
 
 
7,004
  
 
 
972
  
 
 
7,033
  
 
 
288
  
 
 
991
  
 
 
7,302
  
 
 
8,293
  
 
 
1,692
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7900 Cochran Road
 
Glenwillow, OH
 
 
5,367
  
 
 
775
  
 
 
6,244
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
792
  
 
 
6,232
  
 
 
7,024
  
 
 
1,256
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7905 Cochran Road
 
Glenwillow, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
6,174
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
921
  
 
 
6,443
  
 
 
7,364
  
 
 
1,340
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 30600 Carter Street
 
Solon, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
989
  
 
 
3,042
  
 
 
448
  
 
 
1,022
  
 
 
3,457
  
 
 
4,479
  
 
 
1,661
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8181 Darrow Road
 
Twinsburg, OH
 
 
7,473
  
 
 
2,478
  
 
 
6,791
  
 
 
1,922
  
 
 
2,496
  
 
 
8,696
  
 
 
11,192
  
 
 
1,713
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Columbus
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 3800 Lockbourne Industrial Pkwy
 
Columbus, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,045
  
 
 
6,421
  
 
 
(1,759
) 
 
 
609
  
 
 
5,098
  
 
 
5,707
  
 
 
2,348
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3880 Groveport Road
 
Columbus, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,955
  
 
 
12,154
  
 
 
(3,138
) 
 
 
1,275
  
 
 
9,696
  
 
 
10,971
  
 
 
4,369
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1819 North Walcutt Road
 
Columbus, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
637
  
 
 
4,590
  
 
 
(1,190
) 
 
 
374
  
 
 
3,663
  
 
 
4,037
  
 
 
1,487
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4115 Leap Road (d)
 
Hillard, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
756
  
 
 
4,297
  
 
 
1,636
  
 
 
756
  
 
 
5,933
  
 
 
6,689
  
 
 
2,069
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3300 Lockbourne
 
Columbus, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
3,920
  
 
 
(2,050
) 
 
 
162
  
 
 
2,416
  
 
 
2,578
  
 
 
1,513
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1076 Pittsburgh Drive
 
Delaware, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,265
  
 
 
4,733
  
 
 
(49
) 
 
 
2,184
  
 
 
4,765
  
 
 
6,949
  
 
 
1,220
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6150 Huntly Road
 
Columbus, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
4,810
  
 
 
(1,733
) 
 
 
591
  
 
 
3,406
  
 
 
3,997
  
 
 
857
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4985 Frusta Drive
 
Obetz, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
318
  
 
 
837
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
1,084
  
 
 
1,410
  
 
 
392
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4600 S. Hamilton Road
 
Columbus, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
681
  
 
 
5,941
  
 
 
(3,327
) 
 
 
236
  
 
 
3,059
  
 
 
3,295
  
 
 
915
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4311 Janitrol Road
 
Groveport, OH
 
 
—  
  
 
 
662
  
 
 
4,332
  
 
 
1,419
  
 
 
675
  
 
 
5,738
  
 
 
6,413
  
 
 
1,387
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Dallas/Fort Worth
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 2406-2416 Walnut Ridge
 
Dallas, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
1,006
  
 
 
606
  
 
 
172
  
 
 
1,618
  
 
 
1,790
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2401-2419 Walnut Ridge
 
Dallas, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
839
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
142
  
 
 
1,242
  
 
 
1,384
  
 
 
313
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 900-906 Great Southwest Pkwy
 
Arlington, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
1,342
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
1,909
  
 
 
2,179
  
 
 
597
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3000 West Commerce
 
Dallas, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
456
  
 
 
2,584
  
 
 
1,110
  
 
 
469
  
 
 
3,681
  
 
 
4,150
  
 
 
1,178
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3030 Hansboro
 
Dallas, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
1,510
  
 
 
(615
) 
 
 
87
  
 
 
1,074
  
 
 
1,161
  
 
 
646
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 405-407 113th
 
Arlington, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
1,026
  
 
 
581
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
1,603
  
 
 
1,788
  
 
 
494
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 816 111th Street
 
Arlington, TX
 
 
872
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
1,421
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
258
  
 
 
1,546
  
 
 
1,804
  
 
 
558
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7427 Dogwood Park
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
532
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
1,095
  
 
 
1,197
  
 
 
501
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7348-54 Tower Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
489
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
802
  
 
 
238
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7339-41 Tower Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
541
  
 
 
172
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
707
  
 
 
811
  
 
 
216
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7437-45 Tower Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
563
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
108
  
 
 
727
  
 
 
835
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7331-59 Airport Freeway
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
1,758
  
 
 
354
  
 
 
1,958
  
 
 
321
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
2,261
  
 
 
2,633
  
 
 
761
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7338-60 Dogwood Park
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
587
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
816
  
 
 
226
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7450-70 Dogwood Park
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
584
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
724
  
 
 
836
  
 
 
250
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7423-49 Airport Freeway
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
1,485
  
 
 
293
  
 
 
1,621
  
 
 
309
  
 
 
308
  
 
 
1,915
  
 
 
2,223
  
 
 
631
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7400 Whitehall Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
603
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
115
  
 
 
658
  
 
 
773
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1602-1654 Terre Colony
 
Dallas, TX
 
 
1,867
  
 
 
458
  
 
 
2,596
  
 
 
810
  
 
 
468
  
 
 
3,396
  
 
 
3,864
  
 
 
941
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

  S-5



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 2351-2355 Merritt Drive
 
Garland, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
101
  
 
 
574
  
 
 
87
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
670
  
 
 
762
  
 
 
212
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 701-735 North Plano Road
 
Richardson, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
696
  
 
 
3,944
  
 
 
(1,339
) 
 
 
268
  
 
 
3,033
  
 
 
3,301
  
 
 
1,186
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2220 Merritt Drive
 
Garland, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
352
  
 
 
1,993
  
 
 
852
  
 
 
316
  
 
 
2,881
  
 
 
3,197
  
 
 
981
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2010 Merritt Drive
 
Garland, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
350
  
 
 
1,981
  
 
 
354
  
 
 
318
  
 
 
2,367
  
 
 
2,685
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2363 Merritt Drive
 
Garland, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
412
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
510
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
213
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2447 Merritt Drive
 
Garland, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
395
  
 
 
(107
) 
 
 
23
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
358
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2465-2475 Merritt Drive
 
Garland, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
514
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
640
  
 
 
176
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2485-2505 Merritt Drive
 
Garland, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
431
  
 
 
2,440
  
 
 
851
  
 
 
426
  
 
 
3,296
  
 
 
3,722
  
 
 
880
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2081 Hutton Drive—Bldg 1 (e)
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
448
  
 
 
2,540
  
 
 
(489
) 
 
 
265
  
 
 
2,234
  
 
 
2,499
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2110 Hutton Drive
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
2,117
  
 
 
(355
) 
 
 
251
  
 
 
1,885
  
 
 
2,136
  
 
 
721
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2025 McKenzie Drive
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
1,583
  
 
 
437
  
 
 
2,478
  
 
 
363
  
 
 
442
  
 
 
2,836
  
 
 
3,278
  
 
 
882
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2019 McKenzie Drive
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
1,885
  
 
 
502
  
 
 
2,843
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
3,395
  
 
 
3,902
  
 
 
1,020
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1420 Valwood Parkway—Bldg 1 (d)
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
460
  
 
 
2,608
  
 
 
(1,467
) 
 
 
112
  
 
 
1,489
  
 
 
1,601
  
 
 
797
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1620 Valwood Parkway (e)
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,089
  
 
 
6,173
  
 
 
(1,309
) 
 
 
605
  
 
 
5,348
  
 
 
5,953
  
 
 
1,829
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1505 Luna Road—Bldg II
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
167
  
 
 
948
  
 
 
(480
) 
 
 
68
  
 
 
567
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
254
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1625 West Crosby Road
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
617
  
 
 
3,498
  
 
 
(732
) 
 
 
381
  
 
 
3,002
  
 
 
3,383
  
 
 
982
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2029-2035 McKenzie Drive
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
1,586
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
1,870
  
 
 
234
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
2,104
  
 
 
2,410
  
 
 
543
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1840 Hutton Drive (d)
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
811
  
 
 
4,597
  
 
 
(560
) 
 
 
567
  
 
 
4,281
  
 
 
4,848
  
 
 
1,362
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1420 Valwood Pkwy—Bldg II
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
373
  
 
 
2,116
  
 
 
300
  
 
 
366
  
 
 
2,423
  
 
 
2,789
  
 
 
616
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2015 McKenzie Drive
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
2,629
  
 
 
510
  
 
 
2,891
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
516
  
 
 
3,282
  
 
 
3,798
  
 
 
942
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2009 McKenzie Drive
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
2,460
  
 
 
476
  
 
 
2,699
  
 
 
379
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
3,073
  
 
 
3,554
  
 
 
890
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1505 Luna Road—Bldg I
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
521
  
 
 
2,953
  
 
 
(1,965
) 
 
 
129
  
 
 
1,380
  
 
 
1,509
  
 
 
735
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2104 Hutton Drive
 
Carrolton, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
246
  
 
 
1,393
  
 
 
(422
) 
 
 
130
  
 
 
1,087
  
 
 
1,217
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 900-1100 Avenue S
 
Grand Prairie, TX
 
 
2,679
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
3,528
  
 
 
1,395
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
4,917
  
 
 
5,546
  
 
 
1,267
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Plano Crossing (f)
 
Plano, TX
 
 
9,699
  
 
 
1,961
  
 
 
11,112
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
1,981
  
 
 
12,032
  
 
 
14,013
  
 
 
2,989
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7413A-C Dogwood Park
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
249
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
871
  
 
 
982
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7450 Tower Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
307
  
 
 
343
  
 
 
80
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7436 Tower Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
324
  
 
 
195
  
 
 
58
  
 
 
518
  
 
 
576
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7426 Tower Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
429
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
669
  
 
 
745
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7427-7429 Tower Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
556
  
 
 
632
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2840-2842 Handley Ederville Rd
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
113
  
 
 
685
  
 
 
798
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7451-7477 Airport Freeway
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
1,347
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
1,453
  
 
 
309
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
1,759
  
 
 
2,018
  
 
 
433
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7450 Whitehall Street
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
591
  
 
 
414
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
1,004
  
 
 
1,109
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3000 Wesley Way
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
892
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
1,181
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
211
  
 
 
1,196
  
 
 
1,407
  
 
 
277
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7451 Dogwood Park
 
Richland Hills, TX
 
 
602
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
753
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
781
  
 
 
915
  
 
 
187
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 825-827 Avenue H (d)
 
Arlington, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
3,006
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
604
  
 
 
3,035
  
 
 
3,639
  
 
 
906
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1013-31 Avenue M
 
Grand Prairie, TX
 
 
-
  
 
 
300
  
 
 
1,504
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
1,729
  
 
 
2,031
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1172-84 113th Street (d)
 
Grand Prairie, TX
 
 
2,077
  
 
 
700
  
 
 
3,509
  
 
 
(94
) 
 
 
704
  
 
 
3,411
  
 
 
4,115
  
 
 
866
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

  S-6



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 1200-16 Avenue H (d)
 
Arlington, TX
 
 
1,838
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
2,846
  
 
 
248
  
 
 
604
  
 
 
3,090
  
 
 
3,694
  
 
 
682
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1322-66 N. Carrier Parkway (e)
 
Grand Prairie, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
5,012
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
1,006
  
 
 
5,137
  
 
 
6,143
  
 
 
1,262
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2401-2407 Centennial Dr
 
Arlington, TX
 
 
2,266
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
2,534
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
604
  
 
 
2,575
  
 
 
3,179
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3111 West Commerce Street
 
Dallas, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
3,364
  
 
 
101
  
 
 
1,011
  
 
 
3,454
  
 
 
4,465
  
 
 
1,225
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9150 North Royal Lane
 
Irving, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
818
  
 
 
3,767
  
 
 
(1,939
) 
 
 
344
  
 
 
2,302
  
 
 
2,646
  
 
 
893
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 13800 Senlac Drive
 
Farmers Ranch,TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
823
  
 
 
4,042
  
 
 
(89
) 
 
 
825
  
 
 
3,951
  
 
 
4,776
  
 
 
837
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 801-831 S Great Southwest Pkwy (g)
 
Grand Prairie, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,581
  
 
 
16,556
  
 
 
(876
) 
 
 
2,586
  
 
 
15,675
  
 
 
18,261
  
 
 
5,220
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 801-842 Heinz Way
 
Grand Prairie, TX
 
 
2,979
  
 
 
599
  
 
 
3,327
  
 
 
349
  
 
 
601
  
 
 
3,674
  
 
 
4,275
  
 
 
1,206
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 901-937 Heinz Way
 
Grand Prairie, TX
 
 
2,204
  
 
 
493
  
 
 
2,758
  
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
481
  
 
 
2,756
  
 
 
3,237
  
 
 
1,008
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3301 Century Circle
 
Irving, TX
 
 
2,578
  
 
 
760
  
 
 
3,856
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
771
  
 
 
4,049
  
 
 
4,820
  
 
 
665
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 First Garland Dist Ctr.
 
Garland, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,912
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,941
  
 
 
1,947
  
 
 
14,906
  
 
 
16,853
  
 
 
1,887
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Denver
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 4785 Elati
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
981
  
 
 
169
  
 
 
175
  
 
 
1,148
  
 
 
1,323
  
 
 
365
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4770 Fox Street
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
750
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
949
  
 
 
1,083
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3871 Revere
 
Denver, CO
 
 
1,300
  
 
 
361
  
 
 
2,047
  
 
 
282
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
2,322
  
 
 
2,690
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4570 Ivy Street
 
Denver, CO
 
 
1,087
  
 
 
219
  
 
 
1,239
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
1,714
  
 
 
511
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5855 Stapleton Drive North
 
Denver, CO
 
 
1,339
  
 
 
288
  
 
 
1,630
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
290
  
 
 
1,822
  
 
 
2,112
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5885 Stapleton Drive North
 
Denver, CO
 
 
1,811
  
 
 
376
  
 
 
2,129
  
 
 
350
  
 
 
380
  
 
 
2,475
  
 
 
2,855
  
 
 
902
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5977-5995 North Broadway
 
Denver, CO
 
 
1,397
  
 
 
268
  
 
 
1,518
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
1,821
  
 
 
2,092
  
 
 
605
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5952-5978 North Broadway
 
Denver, CO
 
 
2,397
  
 
 
414
  
 
 
2,346
  
 
 
831
  
 
 
422
  
 
 
3,169
  
 
 
3,591
  
 
 
1,096
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4721 Ironton Street
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
232
  
 
 
1,313
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
236
  
 
 
1,333
  
 
 
1,569
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 East 47th Drive—A
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
2,689
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
441
  
 
 
2,659
  
 
 
3,100
  
 
 
953
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9500 West 49th Street—A
 
Wheatridge, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
283
  
 
 
1,625
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
287
  
 
 
1,692
  
 
 
1,979
  
 
 
620
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9500 West 49th Street—B
 
Wheatridge, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
1,272
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
1,462
  
 
 
1,689
  
 
 
535
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9500 West 49th Street—C
 
Wheatridge, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
3,409
  
 
 
114
  
 
 
601
  
 
 
3,522
  
 
 
4,123
  
 
 
1,254
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9500 West 49th Street—D
 
Wheatridge, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
246
  
 
 
1,537
  
 
 
400
  
 
 
247
  
 
 
1,936
  
 
 
2,183
  
 
 
694
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 451-591 East 124th Avenue
 
Littleton, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
383
  
 
 
2,145
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
383
  
 
 
2,241
  
 
 
2,624
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 608 Garrison Street
 
Lakewood, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
265
  
 
 
1,501
  
 
 
419
  
 
 
269
  
 
 
1,916
  
 
 
2,185
  
 
 
677
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 610 Garrison Street
 
Lakewood, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
264
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
445
  
 
 
265
  
 
 
1,938
  
 
 
2,203
  
 
 
659
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 15000 West 6th Avenue
 
Golden, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
913
  
 
 
5,174
  
 
 
868
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
6,037
  
 
 
6,955
  
 
 
2,089
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 14998 West 6th Avenue Bldg E
 
Golden, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
565
  
 
 
3,199
  
 
 
342
  
 
 
570
  
 
 
3,536
  
 
 
4,106
  
 
 
1,256
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 14998 West 6th Avenue Bldg F
 
Englewood, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
269
  
 
 
1,525
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
1,625
  
 
 
1,898
  
 
 
561
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12503 East Euclid Drive
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,208
  
 
 
6,905
  
 
 
364
  
 
 
1,036
  
 
 
7,441
  
 
 
8,477
  
 
 
2,710
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6547 South Racine Circle
 
Englewood, CO
 
 
2,958
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
4,241
  
 
 
328
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
4,569
  
 
 
5,308
  
 
 
1,657
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11701 East 53rd Avenue
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
416
  
 
 
2,355
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
422
  
 
 
2,611
  
 
 
3,033
  
 
 
927
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5401 Oswego Street
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
1,547
  
 
 
343
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
1,885
  
 
 
2,163
  
 
 
660
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 14818 West 6th Avenue Bldg A
 
Golden, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
468
  
 
 
2,799
  
 
 
327
  
 
 
468
  
 
 
3,126
  
 
 
3,594
  
 
 
1,174
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

  S-7



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount
CarriedAt Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 14828 West 6th Avenue Bldg B
 
Golden, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
503
  
 
 
2,942
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
503
  
 
 
3,156
  
 
 
3,659
  
 
 
1,102
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 445 Bryant Street
 
Denver, CO
 
 
7,196
  
 
 
1,829
  
 
 
10,219
  
 
 
2,848
  
 
 
1,829
  
 
 
13,067
  
 
 
14,896
  
 
 
4,219
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3811 Joliet
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
735
  
 
 
4,166
  
 
 
448
  
 
 
752
  
 
 
4,597
  
 
 
5,349
  
 
 
1,566
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12055 E 49th Ave/4955 Peoria
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
298
  
 
 
1,688
  
 
 
524
  
 
 
305
  
 
 
2,205
  
 
 
2,510
  
 
 
721
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4940-4950 Paris
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
861
  
 
 
248
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
1,105
  
 
 
1,261
  
 
 
345
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4970 Paris
 
Denver, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
537
  
 
 
144
  
 
 
97
  
 
 
679
  
 
 
776
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7367 South Revere Parkway
 
Englewood, CO
 
 
3,327
  
 
 
926
  
 
 
5,124
  
 
 
836
  
 
 
934
  
 
 
5,952
  
 
 
6,886
  
 
 
2,274
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8200 East Park Meadows Drive (d)
 
Lone Tree, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,297
  
 
 
7,348
  
 
 
1,179
  
 
 
1,304
  
 
 
8,520
  
 
 
9,824
  
 
 
2,467
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3250 Quentin (d)
 
Aurora, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,220
  
 
 
6,911
  
 
 
657
  
 
 
1,230
  
 
 
7,558
  
 
 
8,788
  
 
 
2,155
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Highpoint Bus Ctr B
 
Littleton, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,408
  
 
 
781
  
 
 
3,366
  
 
 
4,147
  
 
 
807
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1130 W. 124th Ave.
 
Westminster, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,889
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
3,889
  
 
 
4,330
  
 
 
1,388
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1070 W. 124th Ave.
 
Westminster, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,792
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
2,792
  
 
 
3,166
  
 
 
680
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1020 W. 124th Ave.
 
Westminster, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,784
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
2,784
  
 
 
3,158
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Jeffco Bus Ctr Phase I
 
Broomfield, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
312
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,395
  
 
 
370
  
 
 
1,337
  
 
 
1,707
  
 
 
329
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 960 W. 124th Ave
 
Westminster, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,477
  
 
 
442
  
 
 
3,476
  
 
 
3,918
  
 
 
1,037
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8820 W. 116th Street
 
Broomfield, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
338
  
 
 
1,918
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
2,214
  
 
 
2,586
  
 
 
490
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8835 W. 116th Street
 
Broomfield, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,151
  
 
 
6,523
  
 
 
1,154
  
 
 
1,304
  
 
 
7,524
  
 
 
8,828
  
 
 
1,575
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 18150 E. 32nd Street
 
Aurora, CO
 
 
1,959
  
 
 
563
  
 
 
3,188
  
 
 
305
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
3,484
  
 
 
4,056
  
 
 
861
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3400 Fraser Street
 
Aurora, CO
 
 
2,439
  
 
 
616
  
 
 
3,593
  
 
 
(168
) 
 
 
620
  
 
 
3,421
  
 
 
4,041
  
 
 
716
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7005 E. 46th Avenue Drive
 
Denver, CO
 
 
1,479
  
 
 
512
  
 
 
2,025
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
517
  
 
 
2,115
  
 
 
2,632
  
 
 
495
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4001 Salazar Way
 
Frederick, CO
 
 
4,189
  
 
 
1,271
  
 
 
6,508
  
 
 
(88
) 
 
 
1,276
  
 
 
6,415
  
 
 
7,691
  
 
 
1,364
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5909-5915 N. Broadway
 
Denver, CO
 
 
952
  
 
 
495
  
 
 
1,268
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
1,348
  
 
 
1,848
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 555 Corporate Circle
 
Golden, CO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
499
  
 
 
2,673
  
 
 
2,156
  
 
 
559
  
 
 
4,769
  
 
 
5,328
  
 
 
684
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Detroit
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 1731 Thorncroft
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
331
  
 
 
1,904
  
 
 
189
  
 
 
331
  
 
 
2,093
  
 
 
2,424
  
 
 
880
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 47461 Clipper
 
Plymouth Township, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
789
  
 
 
911
  
 
 
348
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 238 Executive Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
514
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
639
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
566
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 449 Executive Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
425
  
 
 
1,057
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
1,389
  
 
 
1,607
  
 
 
1,195
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 501 Executive Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
236
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
778
  
 
 
907
  
 
 
582
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 451 Robbins Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
448
  
 
 
889
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
1,241
  
 
 
1,433
  
 
 
1,105
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1095 Crooks Road
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
331
  
 
 
1,017
  
 
 
2,271
  
 
 
360
  
 
 
3,259
  
 
 
3,619
  
 
 
2,057
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1416 Meijer Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
394
  
 
 
516
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
883
  
 
 
1,004
  
 
 
806
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1624 Meijer Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
236
  
 
 
1,406
  
 
 
1,055
  
 
 
373
  
 
 
2,324
  
 
 
2,697
  
 
 
1,852
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1972 Meijer Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
1,301
  
 
 
738
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
1,982
  
 
 
2,354
  
 
 
1,531
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1621 Northwood Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
351
  
 
 
1,014
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
1,235
  
 
 
1,450
  
 
 
1,158
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1707 Northwood Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
1,316
  
 
 
239
  
 
 
1,434
  
 
 
1,673
  
 
 
1,178
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1788 Northwood Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
483
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
626
  
 
 
729
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1821 Northwood Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
523
  
 
 
855
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
1,290
  
 
 
1,510
  
 
 
1,165
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

  S-8



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount
CarriedAt Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 1826 Northwood Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
472
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
632
  
 
 
735
  
 
 
550
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1864 Northwood Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
190
  
 
 
489
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
736
  
 
 
568
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2277 Elliott Avenue
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
188
  
 
 
389
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
596
  
 
 
625
  
 
 
546
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2451 Elliott Avenue
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
78
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
164
  
 
 
972
  
 
 
1,136
  
 
 
902
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2730 Research Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
903
  
 
 
4,215
  
 
 
1,402
  
 
 
903
  
 
 
5,617
  
 
 
6,520
  
 
 
3,937
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2791 Research Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
2,731
  
 
 
720
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
3,448
  
 
 
4,008
  
 
 
2,358
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2871 Research Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
324
  
 
 
1,487
  
 
 
570
  
 
 
327
  
 
 
2,054
  
 
 
2,381
  
 
 
1,346
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3011 Research Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
457
  
 
 
2,104
  
 
 
687
  
 
 
457
  
 
 
2,791
  
 
 
3,248
  
 
 
1,941
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2870 Technology Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
275
  
 
 
1,262
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
279
  
 
 
1,550
  
 
 
1,829
  
 
 
1,133
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2900 Technology Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
977
  
 
 
562
  
 
 
219
  
 
 
1,534
  
 
 
1,753
  
 
 
856
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2930 Technology Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
594
  
 
 
379
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
966
  
 
 
1,104
  
 
 
598
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2950 Technology Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
819
  
 
 
381
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
1,193
  
 
 
1,378
  
 
 
820
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23014 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
203
  
 
 
216
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
458
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23028 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
285
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
765
  
 
 
890
  
 
 
611
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23035 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
355
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
93
  
 
 
611
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
487
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23042 Commerce Drive
 
Farmintgon Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
277
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
528
  
 
 
617
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23065 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
408
  
 
 
285
  
 
 
93
  
 
 
671
  
 
 
764
  
 
 
477
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23079 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
290
  
 
 
79
  
 
 
580
  
 
 
659
  
 
 
431
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23093 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
211
  
 
 
1,024
  
 
 
805
  
 
 
295
  
 
 
1,745
  
 
 
2,040
  
 
 
1,423
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23135 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
701
  
 
 
392
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
1,081
  
 
 
1,239
  
 
 
753
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23163 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
513
  
 
 
341
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
827
  
 
 
965
  
 
 
605
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23177 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
175
  
 
 
1,007
  
 
 
566
  
 
 
254
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
1,748
  
 
 
1,119
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23206 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
531
  
 
 
367
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
886
  
 
 
1,023
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 23370 Commerce Drive
 
Farmington Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
233
  
 
 
175
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
401
  
 
 
467
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6515 Cobb Drive
 
Sterling Heights, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
305
  
 
 
1,753
  
 
 
242
  
 
 
305
  
 
 
1,995
  
 
 
2,300
  
 
 
830
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1451 East Lincoln Avenue
 
Madison Heights, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
1,703
  
 
 
(476
) 
 
 
148
  
 
 
1,378
  
 
 
1,526
  
 
 
773
  
 
 
1995
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4400 Purks Drive
 
Auburn Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
602
  
 
 
3,410
  
 
 
3,300
  
 
 
612
  
 
 
6,700
  
 
 
7,312
  
 
 
2,494
  
 
 
1995
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32450 N Avis Drive
 
Madison Heights, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
281
  
 
 
1,590
  
 
 
529
  
 
 
286
  
 
 
2,114
  
 
 
2,400
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12707 Eckles Road
 
Plymouth Township, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
1,445
  
 
 
243
  
 
 
267
  
 
 
1,676
  
 
 
1,943
  
 
 
617
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9300-9328 Harrison Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
147
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
395
  
 
 
154
  
 
 
1,222
  
 
 
1,376
  
 
 
430
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9330-9358 Harrison Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
456
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
808
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 28420-28448 Highland Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
809
  
 
 
268
  
 
 
149
  
 
 
1,071
  
 
 
1,220
  
 
 
370
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 28450-28478 Highland Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
461
  
 
 
602
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
1,059
  
 
 
1,144
  
 
 
359
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 28421-28449 Highland Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
617
  
 
 
491
  
 
 
114
  
 
 
1,103
  
 
 
1,217
  
 
 
393
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 28451-28479 Highland Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
608
  
 
 
380
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
983
  
 
 
1,095
  
 
 
325
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 28825-28909 Highland Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
395
  
 
 
314
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
706
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
279
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 28933-29017 Highland Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
634
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
884
  
 
 
1,001
  
 
 
295
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

  S-9



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount
CarriedAt Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 28824-28908 Highland Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
760
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
1,195
  
 
 
1,335
  
 
 
373
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 28932-29016 Highland Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
694
  
 
 
453
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
1,142
  
 
 
1,270
  
 
 
343
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9710-9734 Harrison Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
706
  
 
 
412
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
1,113
  
 
 
1,243
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9740-9772 Harrison Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
749
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
1,054
  
 
 
1,192
  
 
 
354
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9840-9868 Harrison Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
144
  
 
 
815
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
151
  
 
 
1,070
  
 
 
1,221
  
 
 
352
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9800-9824 Harrison Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
664
  
 
 
343
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
1,001
  
 
 
1,124
  
 
 
325
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 29265-29285 Airport Dr
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
794
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
147
  
 
 
1,086
  
 
 
1,233
  
 
 
412
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 29185-29225 Airport Dr
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
792
  
 
 
502
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
1,288
  
 
 
1,434
  
 
 
400
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 29149-29165 Airport Dr
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
216
  
 
 
1,225
  
 
 
248
  
 
 
226
  
 
 
1,463
  
 
 
1,689
  
 
 
550
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 29101-29115 Airport Dr
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
738
  
 
 
257
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
989
  
 
 
1,125
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 29031-29045 Airport Dr
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
124
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
828
  
 
 
958
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 29050-29062 Airport Dr
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
127
  
 
 
718
  
 
 
230
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
942
  
 
 
1,075
  
 
 
337
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 29120-29134 Airport Dr
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
912
  
 
 
268
  
 
 
169
  
 
 
1,172
  
 
 
1,341
  
 
 
423
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 29200-29214 Airport Dr
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
963
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
1,247
  
 
 
1,425
  
 
 
458
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9301-9339 Middlebelt Rd
 
Romulus, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
124
  
 
 
703
  
 
 
461
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
1,158
  
 
 
1,288
  
 
 
375
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32975 Capitol Avenue
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
748
  
 
 
(170
) 
 
 
77
  
 
 
636
  
 
 
713
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32920 Capitol Avenue
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
422
  
 
 
(91
) 
 
 
27
  
 
 
380
  
 
 
407
  
 
 
165
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11923 Brookfield Avenue
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
665
  
 
 
(350
) 
 
 
32
  
 
 
403
  
 
 
435
  
 
 
258
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11965 Brookfield Avenue
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
665
  
 
 
(382
) 
 
 
28
  
 
 
375
  
 
 
403
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 13405 Stark Road
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
254
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
30
  
 
 
267
  
 
 
297
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1170 Chicago Road
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
249
  
 
 
1,380
  
 
 
(428
) 
 
 
134
  
 
 
1,067
  
 
 
1,201
  
 
 
523
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1200 Chicago Road
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
268
  
 
 
1,483
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
286
  
 
 
1,736
  
 
 
2,022
  
 
 
579
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 450 Robbins Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
166
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
281
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
1,189
  
 
 
1,367
  
 
 
422
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1230 Chicago Road
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
1,498
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
289
  
 
 
1,642
  
 
 
1,931
  
 
 
555
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12886 Westmore Avenue
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
190
  
 
 
1,050
  
 
 
(351
) 
 
 
86
  
 
 
803
  
 
 
889
  
 
 
389
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 33025 Industrial Road
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
80
  
 
 
442
  
 
 
(324
) 
 
 
6
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 47711 Clipper Street
 
Plymouth Township, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
539
  
 
 
2,983
  
 
 
279
  
 
 
575
  
 
 
3,226
  
 
 
3,801
  
 
 
1,093
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32975 Industrial Road
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
160
  
 
 
887
  
 
 
(192
) 
 
 
92
  
 
 
763
  
 
 
855
  
 
 
328
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32985 Industrial Road
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
761
  
 
 
(329
) 
 
 
46
  
 
 
523
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
274
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32995 Industrial Road
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
160
  
 
 
887
  
 
 
(388
) 
 
 
53
  
 
 
606
  
 
 
659
  
 
 
347
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12874 Westmore Avenue
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
761
  
 
 
(275
) 
 
 
58
  
 
 
565
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
281
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1775 Bellingham
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
344
  
 
 
1,902
  
 
 
365
  
 
 
367
  
 
 
2,244
  
 
 
2,611
  
 
 
752
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1785 East Maple
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
641
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1807 East Maple
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
321
  
 
 
1,775
  
 
 
(428
) 
 
 
191
  
 
 
1,477
  
 
 
1,668
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 980 Chicago
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
1,141
  
 
 
224
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
1,351
  
 
 
1,571
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1840 Enterprise Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
573
  
 
 
3,170
  
 
 
(2,266
) 
 
 
49
  
 
 
1,428
  
 
 
1,477
  
 
 
1,069
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1885 Enterprise Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
209
  
 
 
1,158
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
223
  
 
 
1,273
  
 
 
1,496
  
 
 
428
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

  S-10



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 1935-55 Enterprise Drive
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,285
  
 
 
7,144
  
 
 
1,317
  
 
 
1,371
  
 
 
8,375
  
 
 
9,746
  
 
 
2,631
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5500 Enterprise Court
 
Warren, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
675
  
 
 
3,737
  
 
 
586
  
 
 
721
  
 
 
4,277
  
 
 
4,998
  
 
 
1,410
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 750 Chicago Road
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
323
  
 
 
1,790
  
 
 
503
  
 
 
345
  
 
 
2,271
  
 
 
2,616
  
 
 
811
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 800 Chicago Road
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
283
  
 
 
1,567
  
 
 
366
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
1,914
  
 
 
2,216
  
 
 
636
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 850 Chicago Road
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
183
  
 
 
1,016
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
1,221
  
 
 
1,417
  
 
 
400
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6833 Center Drive
 
Sterling Heights, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
467
  
 
 
2,583
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
493
  
 
 
2,761
  
 
 
3,254
  
 
 
954
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1100 East Mandoline Road
 
Madison Heights, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
888
  
 
 
4,915
  
 
 
(1,273
) 
 
 
332
  
 
 
4,198
  
 
 
4,530
  
 
 
1,920
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1120 John A. Papalas Drive (e)
 
Lincoln Park, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
366
  
 
 
3,241
  
 
 
141
  
 
 
297
  
 
 
3,451
  
 
 
3,748
  
 
 
1,501
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4872 S. Lapeer Road
 
Lake Orion Twsp,MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,342
  
 
 
5,441
  
 
 
1,307
  
 
 
1,412
  
 
 
6,678
  
 
 
8,090
  
 
 
1,841
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 22701 Trolley Industrial
 
Taylor, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
795
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,326
  
 
 
849
  
 
 
7,272
  
 
 
8,121
  
 
 
2,145
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1400 Allen Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
209
  
 
 
1,154
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
212
  
 
 
1,382
  
 
 
1,594
  
 
 
406
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1408 Allen Drive
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
151
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
153
  
 
 
965
  
 
 
1,118
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1305 Stephenson Hwy
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
345
  
 
 
1,907
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
350
  
 
 
2,157
  
 
 
2,507
  
 
 
595
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32505 Industrial Drive
 
Madison Heights, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
345
  
 
 
1,910
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
351
  
 
 
2,239
  
 
 
2,590
  
 
 
670
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1799-1813 Northfield Drive (d)
 
Rochester Hills, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
2,665
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
490
  
 
 
2,912
  
 
 
3,402
  
 
 
831
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 28435 Automation Blvd
 
Wixom, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
621
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,742
  
 
 
628
  
 
 
3,735
  
 
 
4,363
  
 
 
711
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32200 N Avis Drive
 
Madison Heights, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
503
  
 
 
3,367
  
 
 
(1,325
) 
 
 
195
  
 
 
2,350
  
 
 
2,545
  
 
 
684
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 100 Kay Industrial Drive
 
Rion Township, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
677
  
 
 
2,018
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
685
  
 
 
2,283
  
 
 
2,968
  
 
 
633
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 32650 Capitol Avenue
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
282
  
 
 
1,128
  
 
 
(500
) 
 
 
167
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
910
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11800 Sears Drive
 
Livonia, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
693
  
 
 
1,507
  
 
 
1,195
  
 
 
476
  
 
 
2,919
  
 
 
3,395
  
 
 
1,050
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1099 Chicago Road
 
Troy, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,277
  
 
 
1,332
  
 
 
(1,470
) 
 
 
303
  
 
 
836
  
 
 
1,139
  
 
 
594
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 42555 Merrill Road
 
Sterling Heights, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,080
  
 
 
2,300
  
 
 
3,487
  
 
 
1,090
  
 
 
5,777
  
 
 
6,867
  
 
 
1,294
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 200 Northpointe Drive
 
Orion Township, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
2,063
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
734
  
 
 
2,088
  
 
 
2,822
  
 
 
561
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Houston
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 2102-2314 Edwards Street
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
348
  
 
 
1,973
  
 
 
1,937
  
 
 
382
  
 
 
3,876
  
 
 
4,258
  
 
 
1,141
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3351 Rauch St
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
272
  
 
 
1,541
  
 
 
553
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
2,088
  
 
 
2,366
  
 
 
656
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3851 Yale St
 
Houston, TX
 
 
2,049
  
 
 
413
  
 
 
2,343
  
 
 
359
  
 
 
425
  
 
 
2,690
  
 
 
3,115
  
 
 
925
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3337-3347 Rauch Street
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
1,287
  
 
 
447
  
 
 
233
  
 
 
1,728
  
 
 
1,961
  
 
 
522
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8505 N Loop East
 
Houston, TX
 
 
1,723
  
 
 
439
  
 
 
2,489
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
449
  
 
 
3,117
  
 
 
3,566
  
 
 
1,001
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4749-4799 Eastpark Dr
 
Houston, TX
 
 
2,556
  
 
 
594
  
 
 
3,368
  
 
 
1,330
  
 
 
611
  
 
 
4,681
  
 
 
5,292
  
 
 
1,525
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4851 Homestead Road
 
Houston, TX
 
 
3,212
  
 
 
491
  
 
 
2,782
  
 
 
1,367
  
 
 
504
  
 
 
4,136
  
 
 
4,640
  
 
 
1,280
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3365-3385 Rauch Street
 
Houston, TX
 
 
1,707
  
 
 
284
  
 
 
1,611
  
 
 
699
  
 
 
290
  
 
 
2,304
  
 
 
2,594
  
 
 
781
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5050 Campbell Road
 
Houston, TX
 
 
1,700
  
 
 
461
  
 
 
2,610
  
 
 
448
  
 
 
470
  
 
 
3,049
  
 
 
3,519
  
 
 
1,073
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4300 Pine Timbers
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
489
  
 
 
2,769
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
499
  
 
 
3,484
  
 
 
3,983
  
 
 
1,225
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2500-2530 Fairway Park Drive
 
Houston, TX
 
 
3,427
  
 
 
766
  
 
 
4,342
  
 
 
1,985
  
 
 
792
  
 
 
6,301
  
 
 
7,093
  
 
 
1,859
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

  S-11



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 6550 Longpointe
 
Houston, TX
 
 
1,407
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
2,050
  
 
 
501
  
 
 
370
  
 
 
2,543
  
 
 
2,913
  
 
 
881
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1815 Turning Basin Dr
 
Houston, TX
 
 
1,911
  
 
 
487
  
 
 
2,761
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
531
  
 
 
3,425
  
 
 
3,956
  
 
 
1,181
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1819 Turning Basin Dr
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
1,308
  
 
 
478
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
1,766
  
 
 
2,017
  
 
 
552
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1805 Turning Basin Drive
 
Houston, TX
 
 
2,246
  
 
 
564
  
 
 
3,197
  
 
 
888
  
 
 
616
  
 
 
4,033
  
 
 
4,649
  
 
 
1,391
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9835A Genard Road
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,505
  
 
 
8,333
  
 
 
3,170
  
 
 
1,581
  
 
 
11,427
  
 
 
13,008
  
 
 
3,182
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9835B Genard Road
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
1,357
  
 
 
646
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
1,992
  
 
 
2,248
  
 
 
628
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11505 State Highway 225
 
LaPorte City, TX
 
 
4,573
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
4,675
  
 
 
606
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
5,281
  
 
 
6,221
  
 
 
1,281
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1500 E. Main Street
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
1,328
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
204
  
 
 
1,299
  
 
 
1,503
  
 
 
577
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 700 Industrial Blvd
 
Sugar Land, TX
 
 
3,471
  
 
 
608
  
 
 
3,679
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
617
  
 
 
4,006
  
 
 
4,623
  
 
 
764
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7230-7238 Wynnwood
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
254
  
 
 
764
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
849
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7240-7248 Wynnwood
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
726
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
276
  
 
 
782
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
257
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7250-7260 Wynnwood
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
203
  
 
 
513
  
 
 
716
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7967 Blankenship
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
307
  
 
 
1,166
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
307
  
 
 
1,386
  
 
 
1,693
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
2010
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8800 City Park Look East
 
Houston, TX
 
 
24,242
  
 
 
3,717
  
 
 
19,237
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
3,717
  
 
 
19,237
  
 
 
22,954
  
 
 
646
  
 
 
2013
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6400 Long Point
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
188
  
 
 
898
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
188
  
 
 
892
  
 
 
1,080
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12705 S. Kirkwood, Ste 100-150
 
Stafford, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
154
  
 
 
626
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
706
  
 
 
861
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12705 S. Kirkwood, Ste 200-220
 
Stafford, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
404
  
 
 
1,698
  
 
 
248
  
 
 
393
  
 
 
1,957
  
 
 
2,350
  
 
 
473
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8850 Jameel
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
171
  
 
 
826
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
171
  
 
 
910
  
 
 
1,081
  
 
 
252
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8800 Jameel
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
163
  
 
 
798
  
 
 
(142
) 
 
 
124
  
 
 
695
  
 
 
819
  
 
 
172
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8700 Jameel
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
1,020
  
 
 
(109
) 
 
 
120
  
 
 
961
  
 
 
1,081
  
 
 
288
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8600 Jameel
 
Houston, TX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
163
  
 
 
818
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
163
  
 
 
870
  
 
 
1,033
  
 
 
186
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Indianapolis
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 2900 N Shadeland Avenue
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,057
  
 
 
13,565
  
 
 
3,478
  
 
 
2,057
  
 
 
17,043
  
 
 
19,100
  
 
 
6,687
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1445 Brookville Way
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
2,603
  
 
 
992
  
 
 
476
  
 
 
3,578
  
 
 
4,054
  
 
 
1,257
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1440 Brookville Way
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
665
  
 
 
3,770
  
 
 
894
  
 
 
685
  
 
 
4,644
  
 
 
5,329
  
 
 
1,929
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1240 Brookville Way
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
247
  
 
 
1,402
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
258
  
 
 
1,726
  
 
 
1,984
  
 
 
684
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1345 Brookville Way
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
586
  
 
 
3,321
  
 
 
686
  
 
 
601
  
 
 
3,992
  
 
 
4,593
  
 
 
1,565
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1350 Brookville Way
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
205
  
 
 
1,161
  
 
 
340
  
 
 
212
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
1,706
  
 
 
612
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1341 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
953
  
 
 
1,089
  
 
 
370
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1322-1438 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
145
  
 
 
822
  
 
 
293
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
1,260
  
 
 
409
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1327-1441 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
1,234
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
1,686
  
 
 
1,911
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1304 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
405
  
 
 
188
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
589
  
 
 
664
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1402 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
165
  
 
 
934
  
 
 
369
  
 
 
171
  
 
 
1,297
  
 
 
1,468
  
 
 
479
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1504 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
219
  
 
 
1,238
  
 
 
(128
) 
 
 
115
  
 
 
1,214
  
 
 
1,329
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1365 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
688
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
754
  
 
 
845
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1352-1354 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
1,008
  
 
 
243
  
 
 
166
  
 
 
1,263
  
 
 
1,429
  
 
 
505
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1335 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
460
  
 
 
310
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
766
  
 
 
851
  
 
 
363
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1327 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
295
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
338
  
 
 
371
  
 
 
147
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-12



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 1425 Sadlier Circle E Dr
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
175
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6951 E 30th St
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
1,449
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
265
  
 
 
1,634
  
 
 
1,899
  
 
 
631
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6701 E 30th St
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
78
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
523
  
 
 
605
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6737 E 30th St
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
1,839
  
 
 
385
  
 
 
2,181
  
 
 
189
  
 
 
398
  
 
 
2,357
  
 
 
2,755
  
 
 
927
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6555 E 30th St
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
4,760
  
 
 
1,314
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
6,074
  
 
 
6,558
  
 
 
2,336
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8402-8440 E 33rd St
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
222
  
 
 
1,260
  
 
 
578
  
 
 
230
  
 
 
1,830
  
 
 
2,060
  
 
 
702
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8520-8630 E 33rd St
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
1,848
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
281
  
 
 
2,159
  
 
 
2,440
  
 
 
837
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8710-8768 E 33rd St
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
175
  
 
 
993
  
 
 
473
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
1,461
  
 
 
1,641
  
 
 
558
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3316-3346 N. Pagosa Court
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
325
  
 
 
1,842
  
 
 
438
  
 
 
332
  
 
 
2,273
  
 
 
2,605
  
 
 
827
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7901 West 21st St.
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,048
  
 
 
6,027
  
 
 
164
  
 
 
1,048
  
 
 
6,191
  
 
 
7,239
  
 
 
2,270
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1225 Brookville Way
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
465
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
457
  
 
 
525
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6751 E 30th St
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
2,601
  
 
 
728
  
 
 
2,837
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
741
  
 
 
3,154
  
 
 
3,895
  
 
 
1,124
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9200 East 146th Street
 
Noblesville, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
1,221
  
 
 
1,011
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
2,232
  
 
 
2,413
  
 
 
692
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6575 East 30th Street
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
1,835
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,088
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
2,206
  
 
 
716
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6585 East 30th Street
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
2,743
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,100
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
3,100
  
 
 
3,296
  
 
 
1,017
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9210 E. 146th Street
 
Noblesville, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
684
  
 
 
168
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
864
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
281
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5705-97 Park Plaza Ct.
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
2,194
  
 
 
517
  
 
 
609
  
 
 
2,702
  
 
 
3,311
  
 
 
764
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9319-9341 Castlegate Drive
 
Indianapolis, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
530
  
 
 
1,235
  
 
 
1,063
  
 
 
544
  
 
 
2,284
  
 
 
2,828
  
 
 
858
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1133 Northwest L Street
 
Richmond, IN
 
 
745
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
1,358
  
 
 
(51
) 
 
 
208
  
 
 
1,300
  
 
 
1,508
  
 
 
438
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 14425 Bergen Blvd
 
Noblesville, IN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
647
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,861
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
3,765
  
 
 
4,508
  
 
 
680
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Miami
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 4700 NW 15th Ave.
 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
908
  
 
 
1,883
  
 
 
349
  
 
 
912
  
 
 
2,228
  
 
 
3,140
  
 
 
495
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4710 NW 15th Ave.
 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
830
  
 
 
2,722
  
 
 
386
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
3,104
  
 
 
3,938
  
 
 
596
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4720 NW 15th Ave.
 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
937
  
 
 
2,455
  
 
 
450
  
 
 
942
  
 
 
2,900
  
 
 
3,842
  
 
 
504
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4740 NW 15th Ave.
 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,107
  
 
 
3,111
  
 
 
350
  
 
 
1,112
  
 
 
3,456
  
 
 
4,568
  
 
 
604
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4750 NW 15th Ave.
 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
947
  
 
 
3,079
  
 
 
763
  
 
 
951
  
 
 
3,838
  
 
 
4,789
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4800 NW 15th Ave.
 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,092
  
 
 
3,308
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
1,097
  
 
 
3,441
  
 
 
4,538
  
 
 
626
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Medley Industrial Center
 
Medley, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
857
  
 
 
3,428
  
 
 
3,092
  
 
 
864
  
 
 
6,513
  
 
 
7,377
  
 
 
648
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Pan American Business Park
 
Medley, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,521
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
637
  
 
 
828
  
 
 
2,330
  
 
 
3,158
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Milwaukee
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 N25 W23255 Paul Road
 
Pewaukee, WI
 
 
1,897
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
3,270
  
 
 
(311
) 
 
 
414
  
 
 
3,114
  
 
 
3,528
  
 
 
1,429
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6523 N Sydney Place
 
Glendale, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
172
  
 
 
976
  
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
80
  
 
 
1,052
  
 
 
1,132
  
 
 
538
  
 
 
1995
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5355 South Westridge Drive
 
New Berlin, WI
 
 
5,482
  
 
 
1,630
  
 
 
7,058
  
 
 
(305
) 
 
 
1,646
  
 
 
6,737
  
 
 
8,383
  
 
 
1,158
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 320-334 W. Vogel Avenue
 
Milwaukee, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
506
  
 
 
3,199
  
 
 
(168
) 
 
 
508
  
 
 
3,029
  
 
 
3,537
  
 
 
1,055
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4950 South 6th Avenue
 
Milwaukee, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
1,565
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
1,657
  
 
 
1,958
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1711 Paramount Court
 
Waukesha, WI
 
 
1,316
  
 
 
308
  
 
 
1,762
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
1,796
  
 
 
2,107
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 17005 W. Ryerson Road
 
New Berlin, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
403
  
 
 
3,647
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
405
  
 
 
3,630
  
 
 
4,035
  
 
 
1,027
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-13



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 W140 N9059 Lilly Road
 
Menomonee Falls, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
343
  
 
 
1,153
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
366
  
 
 
1,286
  
 
 
1,652
  
 
 
413
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 200 W. Vogel Avenue-Bldg B
 
Milwaukee, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
2,150
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
2,149
  
 
 
2,451
  
 
 
759
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4921 S. 2nd Street
 
Milwaukee, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
101
  
 
 
713
  
 
 
(233
) 
 
 
58
  
 
 
523
  
 
 
581
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1500 Peebles Drive
 
Richland Center, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,577
  
 
 
1,018
  
 
 
(289
) 
 
 
1,528
  
 
 
778
  
 
 
2,306
  
 
 
601
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 16600 West Glendale Ave
 
New Berlin, WI
 
 
2,338
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
1,923
  
 
 
677
  
 
 
715
  
 
 
2,589
  
 
 
3,304
  
 
 
873
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2905 S. 160th Street
 
New Berlin, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
261
  
 
 
672
  
 
 
340
  
 
 
265
  
 
 
1,008
  
 
 
1,273
  
 
 
398
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2855 S. 160th Street
 
New Berlin, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
221
  
 
 
628
  
 
 
223
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
847
  
 
 
1,072
  
 
 
239
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2485 Commerce Drive
 
New Berlin, WI
 
 
1,569
  
 
 
483
  
 
 
1,516
  
 
 
268
  
 
 
491
  
 
 
1,776
  
 
 
2,267
  
 
 
515
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 14518 Whittaker Way
 
Menomonee Falls, WI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
437
  
 
 
1,082
  
 
 
359
  
 
 
445
  
 
 
1,433
  
 
 
1,878
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Rust-Oleum BTS
 
Kenosha, WI
 
 
14,130
  
 
 
4,100
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,034
  
 
 
3,212
  
 
 
24,922
  
 
 
28,134
  
 
 
2,187
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Menomonee Falls-Barry Land
 
Menomonee Falls, WI
 
 
11,031
  
 
 
1,188
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16,949
  
 
 
1,204
  
 
 
16,933
  
 
 
18,137
  
 
 
1,388
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Minneapolis/St. Paul
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 6201 West 111th Street
 
Bloomington, MN
 
 
4,218
  
 
 
1,358
  
 
 
8,622
  
 
 
5,684
  
 
 
1,499
  
 
 
14,165
  
 
 
15,664
  
 
 
8,945
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7251-7267 Washington Avenue
 
Edina, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
382
  
 
 
675
  
 
 
182
  
 
 
1,004
  
 
 
1,186
  
 
 
751
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7301-7325 Washington Avenue
 
Edina, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
391
  
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
193
  
 
 
338
  
 
 
531
  
 
 
80
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7101 Winnetka Avenue North
 
Brooklyn Park, MN
 
 
5,887
  
 
 
2,195
  
 
 
6,084
  
 
 
3,908
  
 
 
2,228
  
 
 
9,959
  
 
 
12,187
  
 
 
6,311
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9901 West 74th Street
 
Eden Prairie, MN
 
 
3,408
  
 
 
621
  
 
 
3,289
  
 
 
3,145
  
 
 
639
  
 
 
6,416
  
 
 
7,055
  
 
 
4,926
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1030 Lone Oak Road
 
Eagan, MN
 
 
2,614
  
 
 
456
  
 
 
2,703
  
 
 
618
  
 
 
456
  
 
 
3,321
  
 
 
3,777
  
 
 
1,351
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1060 Lone Oak Road
 
Eagan, MN
 
 
3,385
  
 
 
624
  
 
 
3,700
  
 
 
565
  
 
 
624
  
 
 
4,265
  
 
 
4,889
  
 
 
1,767
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5400 Nathan Lane
 
Plymouth, MN
 
 
2,962
  
 
 
749
  
 
 
4,461
  
 
 
921
  
 
 
757
  
 
 
5,374
  
 
 
6,131
  
 
 
2,307
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6655 Wedgewood Road
 
Maple Grove, MN
 
 
7,052
  
 
 
1,466
  
 
 
8,342
  
 
 
3,305
  
 
 
1,466
  
 
 
11,647
  
 
 
13,113
  
 
 
4,487
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 10120 W 76th Street
 
Eden Prairie, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
1,804
  
 
 
1,488
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
3,292
  
 
 
3,607
  
 
 
1,248
  
 
 
1995
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12155 Nicollet Ave.
 
Burnsville, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
286
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,741
  
 
 
288
  
 
 
1,739
  
 
 
2,027
  
 
 
703
  
 
 
1995
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4100 Peavey Road
 
Chaska, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
277
  
 
 
2,261
  
 
 
795
  
 
 
277
  
 
 
3,056
  
 
 
3,333
  
 
 
1,156
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5205 Highway 169
 
Plymouth, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
446
  
 
 
2,525
  
 
 
658
  
 
 
578
  
 
 
3,051
  
 
 
3,629
  
 
 
1,258
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7100-7198 Shady Oak Road
 
Eden Prairie, MN
 
 
4,664
  
 
 
715
  
 
 
4,054
  
 
 
1,970
  
 
 
736
  
 
 
6,003
  
 
 
6,739
  
 
 
2,056
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7500-7546 Washington Square
 
Eden Prairie, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
229
  
 
 
1,300
  
 
 
766
  
 
 
235
  
 
 
2,060
  
 
 
2,295
  
 
 
702
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7550-7586 Washington Square
 
Eden Prairie, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
153
  
 
 
867
  
 
 
275
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
1,138
  
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
414
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5240-5300 Valley Industrial Blvd S
 
Shakopee, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
2,049
  
 
 
843
  
 
 
371
  
 
 
2,883
  
 
 
3,254
  
 
 
965
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 500-530 Kasota Avenue SE
 
Minneapolis, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
415
  
 
 
2,354
  
 
 
1,042
  
 
 
434
  
 
 
3,377
  
 
 
3,811
  
 
 
1,137
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2530-2570 Kasota Avenue
 
St. Paul, MN
 
 
-
  
 
 
407
  
 
 
2,308
  
 
 
829
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
3,103
  
 
 
3,544
  
 
 
978
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5775 12th Avenue
 
Shakopee, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
590
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,676
  
 
 
590
  
 
 
5,676
  
 
 
6,266
  
 
 
1,865
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1157 Valley Park Drive
 
Shakopee, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
760
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,544
  
 
 
888
  
 
 
6,416
  
 
 
7,304
  
 
 
2,025
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9600 West 76th Street
 
Eden Prairie, MN
 
 
2,275
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
2,450
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
1,034
  
 
 
2,477
  
 
 
3,511
  
 
 
643
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9700 West 76th Street
 
Eden Prairie, MN
 
 
3,253
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
2,709
  
 
 
526
  
 
 
1,038
  
 
 
3,197
  
 
 
4,235
  
 
 
810
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7600 69th Avenue
 
Greenfield, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,500
  
 
 
8,328
  
 
 
1,387
  
 
 
1,510
  
 
 
9,705
  
 
 
11,215
  
 
 
2,559
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-14



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 5017 Boone Avenue North
 
New Hope, MN
 
 
2,068
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
1,599
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
1,009
  
 
 
1,575
  
 
 
2,584
  
 
 
571
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2300 West Highway 13
 
Burnsville, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,517
  
 
 
6,069
  
 
 
(3,331
) 
 
 
1,296
  
 
 
3,959
  
 
 
5,255
  
 
 
2,528
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1087 Park Place
 
Shakopee, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,195
  
 
 
4,891
  
 
 
(613
) 
 
 
1,198
  
 
 
4,275
  
 
 
5,473
  
 
 
765
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5391 12th Avenue SE
 
Shakopee, MN
 
 
4,742
  
 
 
1,392
  
 
 
8,149
  
 
 
(342
) 
 
 
1,395
  
 
 
7,804
  
 
 
9,199
  
 
 
1,433
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4701 Valley Industrial Blvd S
 
Shakopee, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,296
  
 
 
7,157
  
 
 
598
  
 
 
1,299
  
 
 
7,752
  
 
 
9,051
  
 
 
2,481
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 316 Lake Hazeltine Drive
 
Chaska, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
714
  
 
 
944
  
 
 
(111
) 
 
 
729
  
 
 
818
  
 
 
1,547
  
 
 
232
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6455 City West Parkway
 
Eden Prairie, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
659
  
 
 
3,189
  
 
 
(407
) 
 
 
665
  
 
 
2,776
  
 
 
3,441
  
 
 
562
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1225 Highway 169 North
 
Plymouth, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,190
  
 
 
1,979
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
1,207
  
 
 
2,074
  
 
 
3,281
  
 
 
581
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7102 Winnetka Avene North
 
Brooklyn Park, MN
 
 
4,316
  
 
 
1,275
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,469
  
 
 
1,343
  
 
 
6,401
  
 
 
7,744
  
 
 
719
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 139 Eva Street
 
St. Paul, MN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,132
  
 
 
3,105
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
2,175
  
 
 
3,152
  
 
 
5,327
  
 
 
503
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 21900 Dodd Boulevard
 
Lakeville, MN
 
 
9,766
  
 
 
2,289
  
 
 
7,952
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
2,289
  
 
 
7,952
  
 
 
10,241
  
 
 
602
  
 
 
2009
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Nashville
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 1621 Heil Quaker Boulevard
 
Nashville, TN
 
 
2,377
  
 
 
413
  
 
 
2,383
  
 
 
1,845
  
 
 
430
  
 
 
4,211
  
 
 
4,641
  
 
 
2,066
  
 
 
1995
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3099 Barry Drive
 
Portland, TN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
418
  
 
 
2,368
  
 
 
(689
) 
 
 
248
  
 
 
1,849
  
 
 
2,097
  
 
 
912
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3150 Barry Drive
 
Portland, TN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
941
  
 
 
5,333
  
 
 
5,964
  
 
 
981
  
 
 
11,257
  
 
 
12,238
  
 
 
2,685
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5599 Highway 31 West
 
Portland, TN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
564
  
 
 
3,196
  
 
 
(1,577
) 
 
 
187
  
 
 
1,996
  
 
 
2,183
  
 
 
1,183
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1931 Air Lane Drive
 
Nashville, TN
 
 
2,452
  
 
 
489
  
 
 
2,785
  
 
 
269
  
 
 
493
  
 
 
3,050
  
 
 
3,543
  
 
 
1,065
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4640 Cummings Park
 
Nashville, TN
 
 
—  
  
 
 
360
  
 
 
2,040
  
 
 
632
  
 
 
365
  
 
 
2,667
  
 
 
3,032
  
 
 
764
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1740 River Hills Drive
 
Nashville, TN
 
 
2,945
  
 
 
848
  
 
 
4,383
  
 
 
467
  
 
 
888
  
 
 
4,810
  
 
 
5,698
  
 
 
1,445
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 211 Ellery Court
 
Nashville, TN
 
 
3,115
  
 
 
606
  
 
 
3,192
  
 
 
433
  
 
 
616
  
 
 
3,615
  
 
 
4,231
  
 
 
798
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Rockdale BTS
 
Gallatin, TN
 
 
17,389
  
 
 
1,778
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,267
  
 
 
1,778
  
 
 
24,267
  
 
 
26,045
  
 
 
1,992
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Northern New Jersey
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 14 World’s Fair Drive
 
Franklin, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
483
  
 
 
2,735
  
 
 
602
  
 
 
503
  
 
 
3,317
  
 
 
3,820
  
 
 
1,165
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12 World’s Fair Drive
 
Franklin, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
3,240
  
 
 
1,120
  
 
 
593
  
 
 
4,339
  
 
 
4,932
  
 
 
1,470
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 22 World’s Fair Drive
 
Franklin, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
364
  
 
 
2,064
  
 
 
639
  
 
 
375
  
 
 
2,692
  
 
 
3,067
  
 
 
1,022
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 26 World’s Fair Drive
 
Franklin, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
361
  
 
 
2,048
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
377
  
 
 
2,655
  
 
 
3,032
  
 
 
951
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 24 World’s Fair Drive
 
Franklin, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
347
  
 
 
1,968
  
 
 
486
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
2,439
  
 
 
2,801
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 20 World’s Fair Drive Lot 13
 
Sumerset, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,554
  
 
 
691
  
 
 
1,872
  
 
 
2,563
  
 
 
493
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 45 Route 46
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
969
  
 
 
5,491
  
 
 
965
  
 
 
978
  
 
 
6,447
  
 
 
7,425
  
 
 
1,916
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 43 Route 46
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
474
  
 
 
2,686
  
 
 
420
  
 
 
479
  
 
 
3,101
  
 
 
3,580
  
 
 
822
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 39 Route 46
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
260
  
 
 
1,471
  
 
 
190
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
1,659
  
 
 
1,921
  
 
 
475
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 26 Chapin Road
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
4,891
  
 
 
956
  
 
 
5,415
  
 
 
769
  
 
 
965
  
 
 
6,175
  
 
 
7,140
  
 
 
1,785
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 30 Chapin Road
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
4,689
  
 
 
960
  
 
 
5,440
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
969
  
 
 
5,875
  
 
 
6,844
  
 
 
1,592
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 20 Hook Mountain Road
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,507
  
 
 
8,542
  
 
 
2,920
  
 
 
1,534
  
 
 
11,435
  
 
 
12,969
  
 
 
3,479
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 30 Hook Mountain Road
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
389
  
 
 
2,206
  
 
 
518
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
2,717
  
 
 
3,113
  
 
 
692
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 55 Route 46
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
2,244
  
 
 
(403
) 
 
 
314
  
 
 
1,923
  
 
 
2,237
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 16 Chapin Rod
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
3,664
  
 
 
885
  
 
 
5,015
  
 
 
529
  
 
 
901
  
 
 
5,528
  
 
 
6,429
  
 
 
1,457
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-15



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 20 Chapin Road
 
Pine Brook, NJ
 
 
4,688
  
 
 
1,134
  
 
 
6,426
  
 
 
665
  
 
 
1,154
  
 
 
7,071
  
 
 
8,225
  
 
 
1,997
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Sayreville Lot 4
 
Sayreville, NJ
 
 
3,515
  
 
 
944
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,598
  
 
 
944
  
 
 
4,598
  
 
 
5,542
  
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Sayreville Lot 3
 
Sayreville, NJ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
996
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,392
  
 
 
996
  
 
 
5,392
  
 
 
6,388
  
 
 
1,010
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 309-319 Pierce Street
 
Somerset, NJ
 
 
3,738
  
 
 
1,300
  
 
 
4,628
  
 
 
689
  
 
 
1,309
  
 
 
5,308
  
 
 
6,617
  
 
 
1,276
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Philadelphia
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 230-240 Welsh Pool Road
 
Exton, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
154
  
 
 
851
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
1,209
  
 
 
1,379
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 264 Welsh Pool Road
 
Exton, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
147
  
 
 
811
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
1,102
  
 
 
1,264
  
 
 
348
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 254 Welsh Pool Road
 
Exton, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
418
  
 
 
213
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
616
  
 
 
707
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 251 Welsh Pool Road
 
Exton, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
144
  
 
 
796
  
 
 
467
  
 
 
159
  
 
 
1,248
  
 
 
1,407
  
 
 
366
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 151-161 Philips Road
 
Exton, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
191
  
 
 
1,059
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
229
  
 
 
1,327
  
 
 
1,556
  
 
 
411
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 216 Philips Road
 
Exton, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
199
  
 
 
1,100
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
1,564
  
 
 
1,784
  
 
 
408
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 14 McFadden Road
 
Palmer, PA
 
 
1,652
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
1,349
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
625
  
 
 
1,380
  
 
 
2,005
  
 
 
583
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2801 Red Lion Road
 
Philadelphia, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
950
  
 
 
5,916
  
 
 
628
  
 
 
964
  
 
 
6,530
  
 
 
7,494
  
 
 
1,616
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3240 S. 78th Street
 
Philadelphia, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
515
  
 
 
1,245
  
 
 
(256
) 
 
 
423
  
 
 
1,081
  
 
 
1,504
  
 
 
375
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 200 Cascade Drive, Bldg. 1
 
Allen Town, PA
 
 
18,820
  
 
 
2,133
  
 
 
17,562
  
 
 
893
  
 
 
2,769
  
 
 
17,819
  
 
 
20,588
  
 
 
4,084
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 200 Cascade Drive, Bldg. 2
 
Allen Town, PA
 
 
2,487
  
 
 
310
  
 
 
2,268
  
 
 
190
  
 
 
316
  
 
 
2,452
  
 
 
2,768
  
 
 
417
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6300 Bristol Pike
 
Levittown, PA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,074
  
 
 
2,642
  
 
 
(107
) 
 
 
964
  
 
 
2,645
  
 
 
3,609
  
 
 
839
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2455 Boulevard of Generals
 
Norristown, PA
 
 
3,592
  
 
 
1,200
  
 
 
4,800
  
 
 
1,088
  
 
 
1,226
  
 
 
5,862
  
 
 
7,088
  
 
 
1,205
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Phoenix
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 1045 South Edward Drive
 
Tempe, AZ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
390
  
 
 
2,160
  
 
 
164
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
2,318
  
 
 
2,714
  
 
 
719
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 50 South 56th Street
 
Chandler, AZ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,206
  
 
 
3,218
  
 
 
360
  
 
 
1,252
  
 
 
3,532
  
 
 
4,784
  
 
 
850
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4701 W. Jefferson
 
Phoenix, AZ
 
 
2,650
  
 
 
926
  
 
 
2,195
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
929
  
 
 
2,635
  
 
 
3,564
  
 
 
978
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7102 W. Roosevelt
 
Phoenix, AZ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,613
  
 
 
6,451
  
 
 
1,136
  
 
 
1,620
  
 
 
7,580
  
 
 
9,200
  
 
 
2,063
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4137 West Adams Street
 
Phoenix, AZ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
990
  
 
 
2,661
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
1,038
  
 
 
2,868
  
 
 
3,906
  
 
 
626
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 245 W. Lodge
 
Tempe, AZ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
898
  
 
 
3,066
  
 
 
(1,891
) 
 
 
362
  
 
 
1,711
  
 
 
2,073
  
 
 
451
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1590 E Riverview Dr.
 
Phoenix, AZ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,293
  
 
 
5,950
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
1,292
  
 
 
6,347
  
 
 
7,639
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 14131 N. Rio Vista Dr.
 
Peoria, AZ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,563
  
 
 
9,388
  
 
 
1,798
  
 
 
2,563
  
 
 
11,186
  
 
 
13,749
  
 
 
1,936
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8716 W. Ludlow Drive
 
Peoria, AZ
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,709
  
 
 
10,970
  
 
 
1,236
  
 
 
2,709
  
 
 
12,206
  
 
 
14,915
  
 
 
1,547
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3815 W. Washington St.
 
Phoenix, AZ
 
 
3,975
  
 
 
1,675
  
 
 
4,514
  
 
 
149
  
 
 
1,719
  
 
 
4,619
  
 
 
6,338
  
 
 
522
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 690 91st Avenue
 
Tolleson, AZ
 
 
7,497
  
 
 
1,904
  
 
 
6,805
  
 
 
2,646
  
 
 
1,923
  
 
 
9,432
  
 
 
11,355
  
 
 
1,503
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Salt Lake City
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 512 Lawndale Drive (i)
 
Salt Lake City, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,688
  
 
 
15,643
  
 
 
3,343
  
 
 
2,688
  
 
 
18,986
  
 
 
21,674
  
 
 
6,579
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1270 West 2320 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
784
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
1,035
  
 
 
1,178
  
 
 
384
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1275 West 2240 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
395
  
 
 
2,241
  
 
 
331
  
 
 
408
  
 
 
2,559
  
 
 
2,967
  
 
 
867
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1288 West 2240 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
119
  
 
 
672
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
902
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2235 South 1300 West
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
1,120
  
 
 
249
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
1,363
  
 
 
1,567
  
 
 
421
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1293 West 2200 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
896
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
163
  
 
 
1,009
  
 
 
1,172
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-16



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 1279 West 2200 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
1,120
  
 
 
296
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
1,410
  
 
 
1,614
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1272 West 2240 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
1,905
  
 
 
387
  
 
 
347
  
 
 
2,281
  
 
 
2,628
  
 
 
741
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1149 West 2240 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
217
  
 
 
1,232
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
1,382
  
 
 
1,607
  
 
 
455
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1142 West 2320 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
217
  
 
 
1,232
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
1,297
  
 
 
1,522
  
 
 
449
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1152 West 2240 South
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,652
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,576
  
 
 
669
  
 
 
3,559
  
 
 
4,228
  
 
 
1,100
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2323 South 900 W
 
Salt Lake City, UT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
886
  
 
 
2,995
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
898
  
 
 
3,201
  
 
 
4,099
  
 
 
1,254
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1815-1957 South 4650 West
 
Salt Lake City, UT
 
 
7,285
  
 
 
1,707
  
 
 
10,873
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
1,713
  
 
 
11,140
  
 
 
12,853
  
 
 
2,043
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2100 Alexander Street
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
1,152
  
 
 
376
  
 
 
1,670
  
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
376
  
 
 
1,649
  
 
 
2,025
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2064 Alexander Street
 
West Valley, UT
 
 
2,125
  
 
 
864
  
 
 
2,771
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
869
  
 
 
2,895
  
 
 
3,764
  
 
 
580
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Seattle
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 1901 Raymond Ave SW
 
Renton, WA
 
 
1,833
  
 
 
4,458
  
 
 
2,659
  
 
 
633
  
 
 
4,594
  
 
 
3,156
  
 
 
7,750
  
 
 
473
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 19014 64th Avenue South
 
Kent, WA
 
 
3,179
  
 
 
1,990
  
 
 
3,979
  
 
 
258
  
 
 
2,042
  
 
 
4,186
  
 
 
6,228
  
 
 
707
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 18640 68th Ave. South
 
Kent, WA
 
 
732
  
 
 
1,218
  
 
 
1,950
  
 
 
348
  
 
 
1,258
  
 
 
2,258
  
 
 
3,516
  
 
 
407
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Puget Sound Terminal 7
 
Seattle, WA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,139
  
 
 
5,881
  
 
 
1,069
  
 
 
9,340
  
 
 
6,748
  
 
 
16,088
  
 
 
393
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Southern California
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 100 West Sinclair
 
Riverside, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,894
  
 
 
3,481
  
 
 
(4,561
) 
 
 
1,819
  
 
 
1,995
  
 
 
3,814
  
 
 
872
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 14050 Day Street
 
Moreno Valley, CA
 
 
3,582
  
 
 
2,538
  
 
 
2,538
  
 
 
291
  
 
 
2,565
  
 
 
2,801
  
 
 
5,366
  
 
 
445
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12925 Marlay Avenue
 
Fontana, CA
 
 
9,869
  
 
 
6,072
  
 
 
7,891
  
 
 
711
  
 
 
6,090
  
 
 
8,584
  
 
 
14,674
  
 
 
1,707
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1944 Vista Bella Way
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,746
  
 
 
3,148
  
 
 
730
  
 
 
1,822
  
 
 
3,802
  
 
 
5,624
  
 
 
1,072
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2000 Vista Bella Way
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
 
 
1,414
  
 
 
817
  
 
 
1,673
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
853
  
 
 
1,938
  
 
 
2,791
  
 
 
488
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2835 East Ana Street
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
 
 
3,015
  
 
 
1,682
  
 
 
2,750
  
 
 
(227
) 
 
 
1,772
  
 
 
2,433
  
 
 
4,205
  
 
 
602
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 665 N. Baldwin Park Blvd.
 
City of Industry, CA
 
 
4,585
  
 
 
2,124
  
 
 
5,219
  
 
 
1,587
  
 
 
2,143
  
 
 
6,787
  
 
 
8,930
  
 
 
1,451
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 27801 Avenue Scott
 
Santa Clarita, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,890
  
 
 
7,020
  
 
 
599
  
 
 
2,902
  
 
 
7,607
  
 
 
10,509
  
 
 
1,503
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2610 & 2660 Columbia St
 
Torrance, CA
 
 
4,715
  
 
 
3,008
  
 
 
5,826
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
3,031
  
 
 
5,984
  
 
 
9,015
  
 
 
1,231
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 433 Alaska Avenue
 
Torrance, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
681
  
 
 
168
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
684
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
862
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4020 S. Compton Ave
 
Los Angeles, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,800
  
 
 
7,330
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
3,825
  
 
 
7,376
  
 
 
11,201
  
 
 
1,195
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 21730-21748 Marilla St.
 
Chatsworth, CA
 
 
3,154
  
 
 
2,585
  
 
 
3,210
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
2,608
  
 
 
3,379
  
 
 
5,987
  
 
 
718
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8015 Paramount
 
Pico Rivera, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,616
  
 
 
3,902
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
3,657
  
 
 
3,922
  
 
 
7,579
  
 
 
855
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3365 E. Slauson
 
Vernon, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,367
  
 
 
3,243
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
2,396
  
 
 
3,254
  
 
 
5,650
  
 
 
748
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3015 East Ana
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19,678
  
 
 
9,321
  
 
 
7,490
  
 
 
20,144
  
 
 
16,345
  
 
 
36,489
  
 
 
3,110
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 19067 Reyes Ave
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,281
  
 
 
3,920
  
 
 
202
  
 
 
9,381
  
 
 
4,022
  
 
 
13,403
  
 
 
1,057
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1250 Rancho Conejo Blvd.
 
Thousand Oaks, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,435
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
1,441
  
 
 
871
  
 
 
2,312
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1260 Rancho Conejo Blvd.
 
Thousand Oaks, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,353
  
 
 
722
  
 
 
(860
) 
 
 
675
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
1,215
  
 
 
166
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1270 Rancho Conejo Blvd.
 
Thousand Oaks, CA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,224
  
 
 
716
  
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
1,229
  
 
 
691
  
 
 
1,920
  
 
 
164
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1280 Rancho Conejo Blvd.
 
Thousand Oaks, CA
 
 
3,062
  
 
 
2,043
  
 
 
3,408
  
 
 
(266
) 
 
 
2,051
  
 
 
3,134
  
 
 
5,185
  
 
 
399
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1290 Rancho Conejo Blvd
 
Thousand Oaks, CA
 
 
2,639
  
 
 
1,754
  
 
 
2,949
  
 
 
(230
) 
 
 
1,761
  
 
 
2,712
  
 
 
4,473
  
 
 
349
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 18201-18291 Santa Fe
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
 
 
10,461
  
 
 
6,720
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,949
  
 
 
6,897
  
 
 
8,772
  
 
 
15,669
  
 
 
892
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-17



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 
















































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 1011 Rancho Conejo
 
 
Thousand Oaks, CA
  
 
 
5,784
  
 
 
7,717
  
 
 
2,518
  
 
 
(186
) 
 
 
7,752
  
 
 
2,296
  
 
 
10,048
  
 
 
556
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2300 Corporate Center Drive
 
 
Thousand Oaks, CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,506
  
 
 
4,885
  
 
 
(5,725
) 
 
 
3,236
  
 
 
2,430
  
 
 
5,666
  
 
 
541
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 20700 Denker Avenue
 
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
  
 
 
5,614
  
 
 
5,767
  
 
 
2,538
  
 
 
1,456
  
 
 
5,964
  
 
 
3,798
  
 
 
9,762
  
 
 
864
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 18408 Laurel Park Road
 
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,850
  
 
 
2,850
  
 
 
643
  
 
 
2,874
  
 
 
3,469
  
 
 
6,343
  
 
 
470
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 19021 S. Reyes Ave.
 
 
Rancho Domingue, CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,183
  
 
 
7,501
  
 
 
733
  
 
 
8,545
  
 
 
7,872
  
 
 
16,417
  
 
 
821
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 16275 Technology Drive
 
 
San Diego, CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,848
  
 
 
8,641
  
 
 
(198
) 
 
 
2,859
  
 
 
8,432
  
 
 
11,291
  
 
 
1,660
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6305 El Camino Real
 
 
Carlsbad, CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,590
  
 
 
6,360
  
 
 
7,563
  
 
 
1,590
  
 
 
13,923
  
 
 
15,513
  
 
 
2,073
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2325 Camino Vida Roble
 
 
Carlsbad, CA
  
 
 
2,026
  
 
 
1,441
  
 
 
1,239
  
 
 
464
  
 
 
1,446
  
 
 
1,698
  
 
 
3,144
  
 
 
353
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2335 Camino Vida Roble
 
 
Carlsbad, CA
  
 
 
1,126
  
 
 
817
  
 
 
762
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
821
  
 
 
891
  
 
 
1,712
  
 
 
232
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2345 Camino Vida Roble
 
 
Carlsbad, CA
  
 
 
795
  
 
 
562
  
 
 
456
  
 
 
87
  
 
 
565
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
1,105
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2355 Camino Vida Roble
 
 
Carlsbad, CA
  
 
 
582
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
365
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
483
  
 
 
420
  
 
 
903
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2365 Camino Vida Roble
 
 
Carlsbad, CA
  
 
 
1,226
  
 
 
1,098
  
 
 
630
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1,102
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
1,731
  
 
 
199
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2375 Camino Vida Roble
 
 
Carlsbad, CA
  
 
 
1,531
  
 
 
1,210
  
 
 
874
  
 
 
199
  
 
 
1,214
  
 
 
1,069
  
 
 
2,283
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6451 El Camino Real
 
 
Carlsbad, CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,885
  
 
 
1,931
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
2,895
  
 
 
2,428
  
 
 
5,323
  
 
 
573
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 8572 Spectrum Lane
 
 
San Diego, CA
  
 
 
2,261
  
 
 
806
  
 
 
3,225
  
 
 
429
  
 
 
807
  
 
 
3,653
  
 
 
4,460
  
 
 
556
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 13100 Gregg Street
 
 
Poway, CA
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,040
  
 
 
4,160
  
 
 
474
  
 
 
1,073
  
 
 
4,601
  
 
 
5,674
  
 
 
948
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Southern New Jersey
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 8 Springdale Road
 
 
Cherry Hill, NJ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
258
  
 
 
1,436
  
 
 
782
  
 
 
258
  
 
 
2,218
  
 
 
2,476
  
 
 
764
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 111 Whittendale Drive
 
 
Morrestown, NJ
  
 
 
1,841
  
 
 
522
  
 
 
2,916
  
 
 
195
  
 
 
522
  
 
 
3,111
  
 
 
3,633
  
 
 
891
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7851 Airport Highway
 
 
Pennsauken, NJ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
160
  
 
 
508
  
 
 
381
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
887
  
 
 
1,049
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 103 Central
 
 
Mt. Laurel, NJ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
610
  
 
 
1,847
  
 
 
1,027
  
 
 
619
  
 
 
2,865
  
 
 
3,484
  
 
 
710
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7890 Airport Hwy/7015 Central
 
 
Pennsauken, NJ
  
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
300
  
 
 
989
  
 
 
511
  
 
 
425
  
 
 
1,375
  
 
 
1,800
  
 
 
619
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 600 Creek Road
 
 
Delanco, NJ
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,125
  
 
 
6,504
  
 
 
(1,905
) 
 
 
1,557
  
 
 
5,167
  
 
 
6,724
  
 
 
2,045
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1070 Thomas Busch Mem Hwy
 
 
Pennsauken, NJ
  
 
 
2,685
  
 
 
1,054
  
 
 
2,278
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
1,084
  
 
 
2,332
  
 
 
3,416
  
 
 
502
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 St. Louis
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 8921-8971 Fost Avenue
 
 
Hazelwood, MO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
431
  
 
 
2,479
  
 
 
888
  
 
 
431
  
 
 
3,367
  
 
 
3,798
  
 
 
1,284
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9043-9083 Frost Avenue
 
 
Hazelwood, MO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
1,838
  
 
 
2,243
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
4,081
  
 
 
4,400
  
 
 
1,181
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 10431-10449 Midwest Industrial Blvd
 
 
Olivette, MO
  
 
 
1,335
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
1,360
  
 
 
403
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
1,763
  
 
 
2,000
  
 
 
720
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 10751 Midwest Industrial Boulevard
 
 
Olivette, MO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
1,119
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
1,377
  
 
 
1,571
  
 
 
526
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6951 N Hanley (d)
 
 
Hazelwood, MO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
405
  
 
 
2,295
  
 
 
2,001
  
 
 
419
  
 
 
4,282
  
 
 
4,701
  
 
 
1,416
  
 
 
1996
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1067 Warson-Bldg A
 
 
St. Louis, MO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
246
  
 
 
1,359
  
 
 
881
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
2,235
  
 
 
2,486
  
 
 
524
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1067 Warson-Bldg B
 
 
St. Louis, MO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
380
  
 
 
2,103
  
 
 
1,889
  
 
 
388
  
 
 
3,984
  
 
 
4,372
  
 
 
993
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1067 Warson-Bldg C
 
 
St. Louis, MO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
303
  
 
 
1,680
  
 
 
1,476
  
 
 
310
  
 
 
3,149
  
 
 
3,459
  
 
 
839
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1067 Warson-Bldg D
 
 
St. Louis, MO
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
353
  
 
 
1,952
  
 
 
1,024
  
 
 
360
  
 
 
2,969
  
 
 
3,329
  
 
 
916
  
 
 
2002
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-18



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 6821-6857 Hazelwood Avenue
 
Berkeley, MO
 
 
4,836
  
 
 
985
  
 
 
6,205
  
 
 
678
  
 
 
985
  
 
 
6,883
  
 
 
7,868
  
 
 
1,755
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 13701 Rider Trail North
 
Earth City, MO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
800
  
 
 
2,099
  
 
 
714
  
 
 
804
  
 
 
2,809
  
 
 
3,613
  
 
 
720
  
 
 
2003
  
 
 
(l
) 

 1908-2000 Innerbelt (d)
 
Overland, MO
 
 
7,980
  
 
 
1,590
  
 
 
9,026
  
 
 
966
  
 
 
1,591
  
 
 
9,991
  
 
 
11,582
  
 
 
2,878
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9060 Latty Avenue
 
Berkeley, MO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
687
  
 
 
1,947
  
 
 
(223
) 
 
 
694
  
 
 
1,717
  
 
 
2,411
  
 
 
1,070
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 21-25 Gateway Commerce Center
 
Edwardsville, IL
 
 
23,091
  
 
 
1,874
  
 
 
31,958
  
 
 
191
  
 
 
1,928
  
 
 
32,095
  
 
 
34,023
  
 
 
4,883
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6647 Romiss Court
 
St. Louis, MO
 
 
—  
  
 
 
230
  
 
 
681
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
742
  
 
 
983
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Tampa
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 5313 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
1,159
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
257
  
 
 
1,284
  
 
 
1,541
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5525 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
1,086
  
 
 
424
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
1,502
  
 
 
1,702
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5709 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
1,086
  
 
 
163
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
1,241
  
 
 
1,441
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5711 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
243
  
 
 
1,376
  
 
 
176
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
1,540
  
 
 
1,795
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5453 W Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
525
  
 
 
607
  
 
 
182
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5455 W Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
307
  
 
 
1,742
  
 
 
806
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
2,529
  
 
 
2,855
  
 
 
822
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5553 W Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
307
  
 
 
1,742
  
 
 
447
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
2,170
  
 
 
2,496
  
 
 
784
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5501 W Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
871
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
242
  
 
 
1,145
  
 
 
1,387
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5503 W Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
289
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
679
  
 
 
789
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5555 W Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
213
  
 
 
1,206
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
221
  
 
 
1,435
  
 
 
1,656
  
 
 
546
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5557 W Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
376
  
 
 
438
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
1997
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5463 W Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
497
  
 
 
2,751
  
 
 
667
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
3,355
  
 
 
3,915
  
 
 
1,163
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5461 W Waters
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
261
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,567
  
 
 
265
  
 
 
1,563
  
 
 
1,828
  
 
 
585
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 5481 W. Waters Avenue
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
558
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,497
  
 
 
561
  
 
 
2,494
  
 
 
3,055
  
 
 
778
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4515-4519 George Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
2,528
  
 
 
633
  
 
 
3,587
  
 
 
767
  
 
 
640
  
 
 
4,347
  
 
 
4,987
  
 
 
1,162
  
 
 
2001
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6089 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
910
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
987
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
186
  
 
 
1,103
  
 
 
1,289
  
 
 
306
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6091 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
676
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
730
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
144
  
 
 
824
  
 
 
968
  
 
 
247
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6103 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
1,108
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
1,160
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
226
  
 
 
1,300
  
 
 
1,526
  
 
 
389
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6201 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
1,029
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
1,107
  
 
 
168
  
 
 
205
  
 
 
1,270
  
 
 
1,475
  
 
 
393
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6203 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
1,286
  
 
 
300
  
 
 
1,460
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
1,565
  
 
 
1,876
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6205 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
1,280
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
1,363
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
1,475
  
 
 
1,753
  
 
 
333
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6101 Johns Road
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
805
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
833
  
 
 
127
  
 
 
216
  
 
 
954
  
 
 
1,170
  
 
 
348
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4908 Tampa West Blvd
 
Tampa, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,622
  
 
 
8,643
  
 
 
(820
) 
 
 
2,635
  
 
 
7,810
  
 
 
10,445
  
 
 
1,821
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 7201-7245 Bryan Dairy Road (d)
 
Largo, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,895
  
 
 
5,408
  
 
 
(1,434
) 
 
 
1,365
  
 
 
4,504
  
 
 
5,869
  
 
 
878
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 11701 Belcher Road South
 
Largo, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,657
  
 
 
2,768
  
 
 
(1,516
) 
 
 
852
  
 
 
2,057
  
 
 
2,909
  
 
 
624
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 4900-4914 Creekside Drive (h)
 
Clearwater, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,702
  
 
 
7,338
  
 
 
(3,046
) 
 
 
2,221
  
 
 
5,773
  
 
 
7,994
  
 
 
1,913
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12345 Starkey Road
 
Largo, FL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
898
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
(462
) 
 
 
599
  
 
 
1,915
  
 
 
2,514
  
 
 
594
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Toronto
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 114 Packham Rd
 
Stratford, ON
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
3,526
  
 
 
527
  
 
 
1,012
  
 
 
4,041
  
 
 
5,053
  
 
 
1,624
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 
  S-19



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 














































  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisition orCompletionand ValuationProvision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Initial
Cost
 
 
 
Gross Amount CarriedAt
Close of Period 12/31/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AccumulatedDepreciation
12/31/2011
 
 
YearAcquired/
Constructed
 
 
DepreciableLives
(Years)
 

 
 
Location
 
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Building Address
 
(City/State)
 
Encumbrances 
 
 
Land
 
 
Buildings
 
 
 
Land
 
 
Improvements
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Other
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 5050 Kendrick Court
 
Grand Rapids, MI
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,721
  
 
 
11,433
  
 
 
(2,219
) 
 
 
988
  
 
 
9,947
  
 
 
10,935
  
 
 
6,764
  
 
 
1994
  
 
 
(l
) 

 2250 Delaware Ave.
 
Des Moines, IA
 
 
—  
  
 
 
277
  
 
 
1,609
  
 
 
(63
) 
 
 
173
  
 
 
1,650
  
 
 
1,823
  
 
 
711
  
 
 
1998
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9601A Dessau Road
 
Austin, TX
 
 
1,209
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,782
  
 
 
366
  
 
 
1,671
  
 
 
2,037
  
 
 
505
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9601C Dessau Road
 
Austin, TX
 
 
1,443
  
 
 
248
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,185
  
 
 
355
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
2,433
  
 
 
997
  
 
 
1999
  
 
 
(l
) 

 9601B Dessau Road
 
Austin, TX
 
 
1,246
  
 
 
248
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,852
  
 
 
355
  
 
 
1,745
  
 
 
2,100
  
 
 
588
  
 
 
2000
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6266 Hurt Road
 
Horn Lake, MS
 
 
—  
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,013
  
 
 
387
  
 
 
4,053
  
 
 
4,440
  
 
 
614
  
 
 
2004
  
 
 
(l
) 

 6301 Hazeltine National Drive
 
Orlando, FL
 
 
3,959
  
 
 
909
  
 
 
4,613
  
 
 
286
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
4,888
  
 
 
5,808
  
 
 
1,327
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 12626 Silicon Drive
 
San Antonio, TX
 
 
3,132
  
 
 
768
  
 
 
3,448
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
3,595
  
 
 
4,374
  
 
 
1,084
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3100 Pinson Valley Parkway
 
Birmingham, AL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
303
  
 
 
742
  
 
 
(215
) 
 
 
225
  
 
 
605
  
 
 
830
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
(l
) 

 10330 I Street
 
Omaha, NE
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,808
  
 
 
8,340
  
 
 
(1,457
) 
 
 
1,619
  
 
 
7,072
  
 
 
8,691
  
 
 
2,147
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3200 Pond Station
 
Jefferson County, KY
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,074
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,681
  
 
 
2,120
  
 
 
9,635
  
 
 
11,755
  
 
 
1,136
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Ozburn Hessey Logistics
 
Winchester, VA
 
 
8,036
  
 
 
2,320
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,855
  
 
 
2,401
  
 
 
10,774
  
 
 
13,175
  
 
 
1,228
  
 
 
2007
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Pure Fishing BTS
 
Kansas City, MO
 
 
11,856
  
 
 
4,152
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,605
  
 
 
4,228
  
 
 
13,529
  
 
 
17,757
  
 
 
1,088
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 3730 Wheeler Avenue
 
Fort Smith, AR
 
 
—  
  
 
 
720
  
 
 
2,800
  
 
 
(561
) 
 
 
589
  
 
 
2,370
  
 
 
2,959
  
 
 
554
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
(l
) 

 600 Greene Drive
 
Greenville, KY
 
 
—  
  
 
 
294
  
 
 
8,570
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
296
  
 
 
8,571
  
 
 
8,867
  
 
 
2,924
  
 
 
2008
  
 
 
(l
) 

 Redevelopments / Developements / Developable Land
 

 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Redevelopments / Developments / Developable Land (j)
 

 
 
—  
  
 
 
132,787
  
 
 
1,154
  
 
 
(954
)(m) 
 
 
118,854
  
 
 
14,133
  
 
 
132,987
  
 
 
1,221
  
 



 





 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 

 
$
689,895
  
 
$
687,614
  
 
$
1,799,497
  
 
$
600,160
  
 
$
654,951
(k) 
 
$
2,432,314
(k) 
 
$
3,087,265
  
 
$
695,931
  
 
 
(k
) 
 





 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  
NOTES: 


(a)
See description of encumbrances in Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 


(b)
Initial cost for each respective property is tangible purchase price allocated in accordance with FASB’s guidance on business combinations.



(c)
Improvements are net of write-off of fully depreciated assets and impairment of real estate. 


(d)
Comprised of two properties. 


(e)
Comprised of three properties. 


(f)
Comprised of four properties. 


(g)
Comprised of five properties. 


(h)
Comprised of eight properties. 
  S-20



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 


(i)
Comprised of 27 properties. 


(j)
These properties represent developable land and redevelopments that have not been placed in service and land parcels for which we receive ground lease income.



(k)
  
















 
  
AmountsIncludedin Real EstateHeld for Sale
 
 
Amounts WithinNet
Investmentin Real Estate
 
 
Gross AmountCarried
AtClose of PeriodDecember 31, 2011
 

 Land
  
$
16,880
  
 
$
638,071
  
 
$
654,951
  

 Buildings & Improvements
  
 
106,069
  
 
 
2,326,245
  
 
 
2,432,314
  

 Accumulated Depreciation
  
 
(37,202
) 
 
 
(658,729
) 
 
 
(695,931
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
85,747
  
 
 
2,305,587
  
 
 
2,391,334
  

 Construction in Progress
  
 
5
  
 
 
27,780
  
 
 
27,785
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Investment in Real Estate
  
 
85,752
  
 
 
2,333,367
  
 
 
2,419,119
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Leasing Commissions, Net, Deferred Leasing Intangibles, Net and Deferred Rent Receivable, Net
  
 
5,907
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
 



 




 Total at December 31, 2011
  
$
91,659
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
 



 



  


(l)
Depreciation is computed based upon the following estimated lives:   








 Buildings and Improvements and Land Improvements
  
 
3 to 50 years
  

 Tenant Improvements, Leasehold Improvements
  
 
Life of lease
  
  


(m)
Includes foreign currency translation adjustments.  At December 31, 2011, the aggregate cost of land and buildings and equipment for federal income tax purpose was approximately $3.1 billion (excluding construction in progress). 
  S-21



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE III: 
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  As of December 31, 2011  (Dollars in thousands) 
 
The changes in total real estate assets, including real estate held for sale, for the
three years ended December 31, 2011 are as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in thousands)
 

 Balance, Beginning of Year
  
$
3,140,649
  
 
$
3,351,626
  
 
$
3,406,729
  

 Acquisition of Real Estate Assets
  
 
22,953
  
 
 
17,595
  
 
 
208
  

 Construction Costs and Improvements
  
 
72,822
  
 
 
49,881
  
 
 
54,650
  

 Disposition of Real Estate Assets
  
 
(91,312
) 
 
 
(50,929
) 
 
 
(73,015
) 

 Impairment of Real Estate
  
 
2,661
  
 
 
(194,552
) 
 
 
(6,934
) 

 Write-off of Fully Depreciated Assets
  
 
(32,723
) 
 
 
(32,972
) 
 
 
(30,012
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, End of Year
  
$
3,115,050
  
 
$
3,140,649
  
 
$
3,351,626
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The changes in accumulated depreciation, including accumulated depreciation for real estate held for
sale, for the three years ended December 31, 2011 are as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance, Beginning of Year
  
$
663,310
  
 
$
597,461
  
 
$
524,865
  

 Depreciation for Year
  
 
95,931
  
 
 
104,175
  
 
 
112,241
  

 Disposition of Assets
  
 
(30,587
) 
 
 
(5,354
) 
 
 
(9,633
) 

 Write-off of Fully Depreciated Assets
  
 
(32,723
) 
 
 
(32,972
) 
 
 
(30,012
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, End of Year
  
$
695,931
  
 
$
663,310
  
 
$
597,461
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  S-22



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   






FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST, INC.




By:
 
/s/    BRUCE W.
DUNCAN        


 
Bruce W. Duncan


 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)
 Date: February 28, 2012 
 









By:
 
/s/    SCOTT A.
MUSIL        


 
Scott A. Musil


 
Chief Financial and Accounting Officer


 
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 Date: February 28, 2012  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/    W. EDWIN
TYLER         W. Edwin Tyler
  
 Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
February 28, 2012





 /s/    BRUCE W.
DUNCAN         Bruce W. Duncan
  
 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
 
February 28, 2012





 /s/    MATTHEW
DOMINSKI         Matthew Dominski
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 /s/    H. PATRICK HACKETT,
JR.         H. Patrick Hackett, Jr.
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 /s/    KEVIN W.
LYNCH         Kevin W. Lynch
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 /s/    JOHN E.
RAU         John E. Rau
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 /s/    L. PETER
SHARPE         L. Peter Sharpe
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012





 /s/    ROBERT J.
SLATER         Robert J. Slater
  
 Director
 
February 28, 2012

  S-23




