
10-K
1
c25148e10vk.htm
FORM 10-K



e10vk



Table of Contents

 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)









þ 
 
Annual Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934




For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

or




 
 
 


o 
 
Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934



For the transition period from __________ to _________.

Commission File Number: 0-25092

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.


(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)




 
 
 





Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)

 
86-0766246
(IRS Employer
Identification No.)


 
 
 




6820 South Harl Avenue, Tempe, Arizona 85283

(Address of principal executive offices, Zip Code)
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (480) 902-1001
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:





 
 
 


Title of each class
 
Name of each exchange on which registered




Common stock, par value $0.01

 
NASDAQ Global Select Market




Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
n/a
(Title of Class)
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.

Yes þ      No o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes o       No þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes þ       No o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to post such files).

Yes þ       No o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K (§ 229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act (check one):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 





Large accelerated filer þ

 
Accelerated filer o

 
Non-accelerated filer o

 
Smaller reporting company o




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act).Yes o No þ

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
of the registrant, based upon the closing price of the registrant’s common stock as reported on The
Nasdaq Global Select Market on June 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant’s most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, was $803,192,580.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock on February 17, 2012 was
43,950,539.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement relating to its 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders have been incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 
 
 

 



 







INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
Year Ended December 31, 2011

TABLE OF CONTENTS





 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Page
 




PART I
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 1. Business

 
 
3
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

 
 
11
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

 
 
17
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 2. Properties

 
 
18
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings

 
 
18
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

 
 
18
 


 
 
 
 
 


PART II
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

 
 
19
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data

 
 
21
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

 
 
23
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

 
 
40
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

 
 
41
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

 
 
74
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures
 
 
74
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 9B. Other Information

 
 
74
 


 
 
 
 
 


PART III
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

 
 
75
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 11. Executive Compensation

 
 
75
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters

 
 
75
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,and Director Independence
 
 
75
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

 
 
75
 


 
 
 
 
 


PART IV
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

 
 
75
 


 
 
 
 
 


SIGNATURES

 
 
76
 


EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K

 
 
77
 


 
 
 
 
 


 EX-10.16
 EX-21
 EX-23.1
 EX-24.1
 EX-24.2
 EX-24.3
 EX-24.4
 EX-24.5
 EX-24.6
 EX-24.7
 EX-31.1
 EX-31.2
 EX-32.1
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT





 

 



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of
this report, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may include: projections of matters that
affect net sales, gross profit, operating expenses, earnings from continuing operations,
non-operating income and expenses, net earnings or cash flows, cash needs and the sufficiency of
our capital resources and the payment of accrued expenses and liabilities; our business strategy
and our strategic initiatives, including the launch of new product and services offerings in
international markets, expanding our products and services to existing and new clients, and
accelerating our cloud and SaaS offerings; the availability of competitive sources of products for
our purchase and resale; industry pricing and consolidation trends; our intentions concerning the
payment of dividends; our acquisition strategy; the effects of inflation and increasing interest
rates; trends related to our effective tax rate; effects of acquisitions or dispositions;
projections of IT integration expenses and capital expenditures; plans for future operations; the
availability of financing and our needs or plans relating thereto; the effect of new accounting
principles or changes in accounting policies; the effect of indemnification obligations;
projections about the outcome of ongoing tax audits; statements related to accounting estimates,
including estimated stock-based compensation award forfeitures, the timing of the payment of
restructuring obligations and the realization of deferred tax assets and the resolution of
uncertain tax positions; our positions and strategies with respect to ongoing and threatened
litigation; our ability to grow sales to new and existing clients and increase our market share and
the resulting effect on our results of operations and profitability; our plans to grow our sales
team; the timing of the effect of our initiatives to expand our international product and services
offerings; our plans to consolidate, upgrade and integrate our IT systems, including the timing and
costs relating thereto; the sufficiency of our facilities; the possibility that we may take future
restructuring actions; our intentions to reinvest foreign earnings; our plans to use cash flow from
operations to pay down debt, make capital expenditures and fund acquisitions; our exposure to
off-balance sheet arrangements; statements of belief; and statements of assumptions underlying any
of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements are identified by such words as “believe,”
“anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” “may” and variations of
such words and similar expressions and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of
which cannot be predicted or quantified. Future events and actual results could differ materially
from those set forth in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements. There can
be no assurances that results described in forward-looking statements will be achieved, and actual
results could differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. Some of
the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected
in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:




 
•
 
our reliance on partners for product availability and competitive products to sell as
well as our competition with our partners;


 

 
•
 
our reliance on partners for marketing funds and purchasing incentives;


 

 
•
 
disruptions in our information technology systems and voice and data networks, including
risks and costs associated with the integration and upgrade of our IT systems;


 

 
•
 
general economic conditions;


 

 
•
 
the security of our electronic and other confidential information;


 

 
•
 
actions of our competitors, including manufacturers and publishers of products we sell;


 

 
•
 
the integration and operation of acquired businesses, including our ability to achieve
expected benefits of the acquisitions;


 

 
•
 
changes in the IT industry and/or rapid changes in product standards;


 

 
•
 
failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our commercial and public sector
contracts;


 

 
•
 
the availability of future financing and our ability to access and/or refinance our
credit facilities;


 

 
•
 
the variability of our net sales and gross profit;


 

 
•
 
stockholder litigation and regulatory proceedings related to the restatement of our
consolidated financial statements;


 

 
•
 
the risks associated with our international operations;


 

 
•
 
exposure to changes in, interpretations of, or enforcement trends related to tax rules
and regulations;


 

 
•
 
our dependence on key personnel; and


 

 
•
 
intellectual property infringement claims and challenges to our registered trademarks
and trade names.



 

1



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Additionally, there may be other risks that are otherwise described from time to time in the
reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statements
in this report should be considered in light of various important factors, including the risks and
uncertainties listed above, as well as others. We assume no
obligation to update, and do not intend to update, any forward-looking statements. We do not
endorse any projections regarding future performance that may be made by third parties.

 

2



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




PART I




Item 1. Business

General

Insight Enterprises, Inc. (“Insight” or the “Company”) is a global provider of information
technology (“IT”) hardware, software and service solutions to businesses and public sector
institutions. The Company is organized in the following three operating segments, which are
primarily defined by their related geographies:





 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
% of 2011


 
 
 
 
Consolidated Net


Operating Segment*
 
Geography
 
Sales




North America
 
United States and Canada
 
70%


 
 
 
 
 


EMEA
 
Europe, Middle East and Africa
 
26%


 
 
 
 
 


APAC
 
Asia-Pacific
 
4%






 
 
 


*
 
Additional detailed segment and geographic information can be found in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” in Part II, Item 7 and in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.


Our process knowledge and technical expertise allow us to assess, design and deploy IT
solutions to help our clients enable, manage and secure their IT environments. Our product
fulfillment and logistics capabilities, management tools and technical expertise make designing,
deploying and managing IT solutions easier for our clients while helping them  control their IT costs.
Insight has locations in 23 countries, and we have the capabilities to serve clients in approximately 190 countries with software
provisioning and related services, transacting business in 18 languages and 14 currencies.
Currently, our offerings in North America, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany include
a suite of IT hardware, software and services. Our offerings in the remainder of our EMEA segment
and in APAC are almost entirely software and select software-related services. On a consolidated
basis, hardware, software and services represented 53%, 42% and 5%, respectively, of our net sales
in both 2011 and 2010.

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1991 as the successor to an Arizona corporation that
commenced operations in 1988. Our corporate headquarters are located in Tempe, Arizona. We began
operations in the U.S., expanded into Canada in 1997 and into the United Kingdom in 1998. In 2006,
through our acquisition of Software Spectrum, Inc. (“Software Spectrum”), we expanded deeper into
global markets in EMEA and APAC, where Software Spectrum already had an established footprint and
strategic relationships. In 2008, through our acquisitions of Calence, LLC (“Calence”) in North
America and MINX Limited (“MINX”) in the United Kingdom, we enhanced our global technical expertise
around higher-end networking and communications technologies, as well as managed services and
security. Effective October 1, 2011, we enhanced our professional services capabilities by
acquiring Tempe, Arizona-based Ensynch, Incorporated (“Ensynch”). Effective February 1, 2012, we
expanded our hardware capabilities into key markets in our existing European footprint by acquiring
Inmac, a broad portfolio business-to-business hardware reseller based in Frankfurt, Germany and the
Netherlands servicing clients in Western Europe. As part of our focus on core elements of our
growth strategy, in 2006 we sold Direct Alliance Corporation (“Direct Alliance”), a business
process outsourcing provider in the U.S., and in 2007 we sold PC Wholesale, a seller of IT products
to other resellers in the U.S.

Values

We are focused on instilling a winning culture and have an established set of values that set
the tone for our business and define who we are. Our core values are:




 
•
 
We Exist to Serve Our Clients


 

 
•
 
We Respect Each Other


 

 
•
 
We Develop and Value Our Teammates


 

 
•
 
We Act with Integrity


 

 
•
 
We Strive for Operational Excellence in All We Do


 

3



Table of Contents




INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

We believe that these values strengthen the overall Insight experience for our teammates,
clients and partners (we refer to our employees as “teammates,” our customers as “clients” and our
suppliers as “partners”). By living these values, we believe we are able to attract, develop and
retain great talent.

Business Strategy

Our vision is to be the trusted advisor to our clients, helping them enhance business
performance through innovative technology solutions. Our strategy is to grow market share and
profitability by delivering relevant product, service and solution offerings to our clients on a
scalable support and delivery platform. With the continual emergence of new technologies and
technology solution options in the IT industry, we believe businesses continue to seek technology
providers to supply value-added advice to help them identify and deploy IT solutions, rather than to just provide product selection, price and availability. We believe
that Insight has a unique position in the market and can gain profitable market share and provide
enhanced value to our clients. We have a multi-partner approach and excel at providing broad
product selection at competitive prices through an efficient supply chain. We have deeper services
and solutions capabilities than many of our competitors, we have a multi-national footprint, and we serve a cross-section of clients.

Insight’s core business is providing IT hardware, software and services to large, medium and
small businesses and public sector institutions. We believe that what differentiates Insight from
our competitors is:




 
•
 
Our Scale and Reach — we had $5.3 billion in net sales in 2011 and have sales and
distribution capabilities in 23 countries.


 

 
•
 
Our People — we have over 5,300 teammates worldwide, including over 1,000 skilled,
certified services professionals.


 

 
•
 
Our Business Foundation — we have a broad offering of hardware and software
products, with access to over $3 billion in virtual inventory, efficient supply chain
execution and customizable e-commerce capabilities.


 

 
•
 
Our Breadth and Depth of Services — we have developed services capabilities focused
on managed services and professional and consulting services, which are particularly
strong in the United States and the United Kingdom.


 

 
•
 
Our Partners and Clients — we have a multi-partner approach with approximately
5,400 partnerships with manufacturers and publishers and approximately 70,000
commercial and public sector clients globally.



To further refine our strategy and strengthen our execution and operational
effectiveness, Insight is focused on five strategic initiatives:




 
•
 
Grow profitable market share;


 

 
•
 
Expand services;


 

 
•
 
Accelerate cloud solutions;


 

 
•
 
Deploy IT systems; and


 

 
•
 
Drive operational excellence.



Grow profitable market share. Our geographically aligned sales and delivery model in North
America continues to focus on organic, profitable growth and market share gain. We remain focused
on selling into a specific set of targeted clients that are part of our total addressable market,
or as we call it, our TAM. Key initiatives of our refined focus include adding new TAM clients and
rolling the TAM focus to additional geographies and client sectors. We are putting particular
focus on increasing our share of the middle market client group, which is key to our strategy in
all geographies. In EMEA and APAC, we will also continue to focus on the public sector. We are
addressing these opportunities to grow market share by investing in our sales teams in all
geographies and investing in enhanced training initiatives.

In addition to our focus on new clients, we seek to increase our share of our current clients’
annual IT budgets. We are investing in focused training programs in North America and are aligning our sales teammates with our specialists, who have even deeper technical expertise, to ensure our
sales teammates are able to sell across our portfolio of offerings. Further, we have
implemented the management systems necessary to track our progress. We have launched our new IT
system in EMEA and are deploying similar programs as necessary to ensure we are able to bring our
hardware capabilities to our existing and new clients in selected additional markets. Our operating model
allows us to tailor offerings based on the size and complexity of our client. Accordingly, we
believe that there are opportunities for Insight to expand relationships with our existing clients
by increasing the types of products and services that each of our existing clients buy from us.

 

4



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Whether to new or existing clients, we are focused on selling solutions. We have identified,
and are engaged with the top IT partners, in developing and deploying solutions which combine
hardware, software and services to meet the specific and critical needs of our clients. The
solutions domains identified are:




 
•
 
Data Center


 

 
•
 
Network and Security


 

 
•
 
Unified Communications and Collaboration


 

 
•
 
Office Productivity


 

 
•
 
Virtualization


 

 
•
 
Mobility


 

 
•
 
Cloud


 

 
•
 
Data Protection



These solutions can be provided through a variety of delivery mechanisms, including
on-premise, through our remote operations center, or through a private, public or hybrid cloud, to
name a few.

Further, we intend to seize growth opportunities in new technologies. As manufacturers,
publishers and service providers develop new technologies and as new ways of buying and supplying
technology take hold, we are committed to taking advantage of and leveraging these opportunities.

Expand services. While Insight’s business was built primarily on hardware and software product sales
that are the foundation of many of our client relationships today, we believe our  services
capabilities differentiate Insight in the marketplace and enhance our profitability. Our services
capabilities are most developed in our United States business, and we are growing our capabilities
in the United Kingdom and are selectively launching the offering of such services in Canada and
other countries in our EMEA and APAC segments.

During 2011, we clearly defined our go-to-market services strategy in the United States. As
part of this effort, we carefully analyzed our set of service offerings to determine if each
service is aligned with our eight solutions domains, is market relevant, is differentiated, is
profitable and is repeatable and scalable. As a result of this objective evaluation, we have
redeployed resources and have a refined focus on our strategy to grow services.

Also during 2011, we completed the acquisition of Ensynch, a leading professional services
firm with multiple Microsoft Gold competencies across the complete Microsoft solution set,
including cloud migration and management. We believe the Ensynch acquisition brings a depth of
knowledge and expertise that will enhance our professional services capabilities and that combining
Ensynch’s technical skills with Insight’s sales engine will elevate our ability to provide clients
with complete software solutions to drive their success.

Our service delivery team is composed of over 1,000 professionals with approximately 3,000
certifications and delivers services using a proprietary methodology and dedicated project
management office.

In addition, we are expanding our service partner network in the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands, Germany, France and Canada to further augment capabilities to deliver select managed
and professional and consulting services.

In other countries where we do not currently sell hardware, we intend to continue to enhance
our software offerings by introducing “Software as a Service” (“SaaS”) cloud solutions, expanding
our services capabilities, and extending our client reach with middle market and public sector
clients. In addition, we intend to maintain our global software capabilities to support our
multinational clients. For a discussion of risks associated with international operations, see
“Risk Factors — There are risks associated with our international operations that are different
than the risks associated with our operations in the United States, and our exposure to the risks
of a global market could hinder our ability to maintain and expand international operations,” in
Part I, Item 1A of this report.

 

5



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Accelerate cloud solutions. Cloud computing represents an evolution in the IT world.
Private, public and hybrid cloud solutions provide flexible, reliable and affordable solutions for
delivering critical IT functions, such as email, data security, data center hosting and more. To date, Insight has sold more than one million seats in various cloud offerings. We
are developing solutions and services to make the transition from the traditional IT computing
model to cloud computing easier for our clients.

Our vision is to help our clients succeed in the cloud. We plan to do this by becoming the
leading single-source provider of the best-in-class cloud computing solutions, providing a wide range of cloud
solutions, support services and an enhanced shopping experience through our one central aggregation point.

Building on our value as a
technology solutions provider, in mid February 2012, we launched the InsightCloud Solutions Center,
which  offers clients a new way to
learn about, shop for and manage and provision cloud computing solutions. We anticipate that,
by the end of 2012, InsightCloud will provide an array of cloud offerings from industry leaders,
complete with client care support services and expert presale resources to assist in client
decision making and implementation. In North America, the InsightCloud Solutions Center acts as
our “as-a-service” aggregation portal linked to Insight.com, which  enables integrated
procurement and provisioning, a utility billing system, solution administration support and
on-demand services. Similar cloud solutions are being offered by Insight in EMEA as well.

Deploy IT systems. One of our North America segment’s key initiatives is to deliver
standardized process and systems across North America. As part of this initiative, we are in the
process of consolidating systems and removing operational barriers created by the multiple IT
environments inherited in past business acquisitions. We believe this systems integration will
drive operational efficiency and simplify engagement among our teammates and with our clients and
our partners.

This systems integration strategy in North America will allow us to:




 
•
 
Simplify our systems landscape;


 

 
•
 
Enhance cross-selling by improving client and account executive access to all products
and services we sell;


 

 
•
 
Implement solutions that effectively support our services business;


 

 
•
 
Standardize our data repository to facilitate user access and strengthen controls; and


 

 
•
 
Improve productivity by streamlining applications, process and infrastructure.



Our plan is to fully integrate our IT systems in North America onto an integrated platform by
the end of 2012. Significant internal and external resources have been devoted to the successful
completion of this project.

We are also in the process of converting our EMEA operations to a new IT system that will
allow us to expand our sales of hardware and services, in addition to software, to clients in that
region. To date, we have successfully deployed the new system in the Netherlands and Germany,
expanding our core hardware capabilities into these countries. We expect to continue our
deployment in the remainder of EMEA throughout 2012 and into 2013, and we expect a positive
contribution to our financial results beginning in 2012. Until these deployments are completed,
our offerings in EMEA, outside of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany, and in APAC are
almost entirely software and select software-related services. We intend to continue to offer
global software licensing and related asset management services, as we believe these global
capabilities meaningfully differentiate us from our competitors.

Drive operational excellence. We define operational excellence in terms of our productivity,
or how we align our organizational and departmental goals to our daily work effort. We measure our
productivity based on the ratio of our selling and administrative expenses to gross profit dollars.
In order to improve productivity, we have implemented a series of initiatives, including defining
and setting expectations for levels of productivity for all teammates, embedding these metrics into
job descriptions, benchmarking ourselves internally and externally and utilizing a formalized
management system to review our progress through quarterly business reviews. We have established
clear roles and accountabilities for all teammates and aligned compensation models and business
processes to ensure our productivity improves across our business.

Utilizing metrics and a management system to track our performance and a weekly sales
management commitment process, we have  real time visibility into our business
to ensure resources are aligned to drive results. We believe that our continuous focus
on operational excellence and improvement for every business process will yield a significant
long-term benefit to Insight.

 

6



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Hardware, Software and Services Offerings

Hardware Offerings. We currently offer our clients in North America and select countries in
EMEA a comprehensive selection of IT hardware products. We offer products from hundreds of
manufacturers, including such industry leaders as Hewlett-Packard (“HP”), Cisco, Lenovo, IBM and
Panasonic. Our scale and purchasing power, combined with our efficient, high-volume and cost
effective direct sales and marketing model, allow us to offer
competitive prices. We believe that offering choices from multiple partners enables us to
better serve our clients by providing a variety of product solutions to best address their specific
business needs. These needs may be based on particular client preferences or other criteria, such
as real-time best pricing and availability, or compatibility with existing technology. In addition
to our distribution facilities, we have “direct-ship” programs with many of our partners, including
manufacturers and distributors, allowing us to expand our product offerings without increasing
inventory, handling costs or inventory risk exposure. As a result, we are able to provide a
product offering with billions of dollars of products in virtual inventory. Convenience and
product options among multiple brands are key competitive advantages against manufacturers’ direct
selling programs, which are generally limited to their own brands and may not offer clients a
complete or best in class solution across all product categories.

The four hardware technology categories we have identified as key to our solutions selling
focus are:




 
•
 
Desktop, notebook and tablet


 

 
•
 
Network and power


 

 
•
 
Server and storage


 

 
•
 
Print and consumables



Software Offerings. Our clients acquire software applications from us in the form of
licensing agreements with software publishers, boxed products, or through SaaS, whereby clients
subscribe to software that is hosted either by the software publisher or a dedicated third-party
hosting company on the internet. The majority of our clients obtain their software applications
through licensing agreements, which we believe is a result of their ease of administration and
cost-effectiveness. Licensing agreements, or right-to-copy agreements, allow a client to either
purchase a license for each of its users in a single transaction or periodically report its
software usage, paying a license fee based on the number of users.

As software publishers choose different models for implementing licensing agreements,
businesses must evaluate the alternatives to ensure that they select the appropriate agreements and
comply with the publishers’ licensing terms when purchasing and managing their software licenses.
We work closely with our clients to understand their licensing
requirements and to educate them regarding the options available under publisher licensing
agreements. Many of our clients who have elected to purchase software licenses through licensing
agreements have also entered into software maintenance agreements, which allow clients to receive
new versions, upgrades or updates of software products released during the maintenance period, in
exchange for a specified annual fee. We assist our clients and partner publishers in tracking and
renewing these agreements. In connection with certain enterprise-wide licensing agreements,
publishers may choose to bill and collect from clients directly. In these cases, we earn a
referral fee directly from the publisher.

The four software and licensing technology categories we have identified as key to our
solutions selling focus are:




 
•
 
Office productivity


 

 
•
 
Virtualization


 

 
•
 
Creativity


 

 
•
 
Data protection



Additionally, we help our clients standardize their software environments while reducing costs
and limiting risk through optimal license use and compliance management. We offer clients a
portfolio of Software Asset Management (“SAM”) services, including SAM consultation, assessment of
ISO standard attainment, license reconciliations, and our proprietary Insight:LicenseAdvisor® SAM
solution platform. We also launched iSAM, a more abbreviated cloud version of our proprietary SAM
solution platform, in EMEA. We help clients determine their license rights and utilization rates,
reconcile the difference, and then proactively track, analyze, and manage their software asset
portfolio from procurement to retirement.

 

7



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Services Offerings. We currently offer a suite of consulting, technical and managed services
in the U.S., the United Kingdom, France and Germany via our own personnel, augmented by service
partners to fill gaps in our geographic coverage or capabilities. We also utilize partners to
deliver these services in Canada. We believe that developing the breadth and quality of these
capabilities internally or through targeted acquisitions over time will be a key differentiator for
us. We have, and intend to continue to develop, an array of technical expertise and service
capabilities to help identify, acquire, implement and manage technology solutions to allow our
clients to address their business needs.

As discussed previously, to grow profitable market share, we have identified and are focused
on eight solutions domains. Within these solutions domains, we offer the following four services
categories:




 
•
 
Planning






 
•
 
Strategy and Assessment






 
•
 
Architecture and Design






 
•
 
Deployment






 
•
 
Integration






 
•
 
Implementation






 
•
 
Operations






 
•
 
Managed







 
•
 
Cloud Computing






 
•
 
Refresh






 
•
 
Warranty







 
•
 
Maintenance



We know that our clients have limited resources to provide reliable support to their end users
and maximizing the life cycle and value of their IT investments. Our consulting services are
focused on assessment, architecture and design in networking, contact center and Microsoft
technologies. Insight’s technical services span integration, deployment and support across a wide
range of hardware and software partners. Our managed services create an extension of our client’s
team and include our Remote Network Operation Center (“RNOC”), our integration labs and our
National Repair Center (“NRC”). The RNOC provides 24x7 remote monitoring of clients’
infrastructure, including network, server and storage. Our ISO certified labs deliver a range of
services from imaging to configuration to remote testing of product in a client’s IT environment
via secure Virtual Private Network connections. The NRC offers repair, remarketing and overnight
hot-swap services.

Further, we can help our clients preserve capital and expand limited resources by delivering
business-critical applications and programs from the cloud. With low upfront costs and no need for
in-house maintenance, “as-a-service” offerings are an effective alternative to potentially more
expensive on-premise solutions. We partner with providers to deliver solutions around
collaboration and messaging, managed security and data management, including Microsoft, Symantec,
CA Technologies, IBM, McAfee and Apptix. We plan to aggressively add additional partners with new
offerings in 2012 as we accelerate cloud solution offerings.

Our solutions groups are made up of industry-, technical- and product-certified engineers,
consultants and specialists who are current on best practices and the latest developments in their
respective practice areas.

We are a Cisco Gold Certified partner in the United States and the United Kingdom and have
Master Certifications in unified communications and security in the United States. Our data center
practice in the United States is an HP Authorized Enterprise Provider and holds HP Storage Elite,
HP Blade Elite and HP Services Elite partner status. We hold Microsoft Gold certifications in
identity and security, portals and collaboration, virtualization, server platform, systems
management, software asset management and volume licensing and are a Microsoft Cloud Accelerator
Partner. We also have been awarded premier partner status by a number of other partners, such as
IBM, EMC and VMware.

Our Information Technology Systems

We have committed significant resources to the IT systems we use to manage our business and
believe that our success is dependent upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to
our clients based on the accuracy, quality and utilization of the information generated by our IT
systems. Because these systems affect our ability to manage our sales, client service, partner
relationships and programs, distribution, inventories and accounting systems and our voice and data
networks, we have built redundancy into certain systems, maintain system outage policies and
procedures and have comprehensive data backup. Our U.S. and foreign locations are not on a single
IT system platform, but we are focused on driving improvements in sales productivity through
upgraded IT systems to support higher levels of client satisfaction and new client acquisition, as
well as garnering efficiencies in our business. For additional discussion of our plans to make
enhancements and upgrades to our IT systems, see “Business Strategy — Deploy IT systems”
previously in Part I of this report and for a discussion of risks associated with our IT systems,
see “Risk Factors — Disruptions in our IT systems and voice and data networks, including the
integration and upgrade of our IT systems, could affect our ability to service our clients and
cause us to incur additional expenses,” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

 

8



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Competition

The IT hardware, software and services industry is very fragmented and highly competitive. We
compete with a large number and wide variety of marketers and resellers of IT hardware, software
and services, including:




 
•
 
Direct marketers and resellers, such as CDW (North America), Systemax (Europe),
SoftChoice, Comparex, PC Connection, PC Mall, Worldwide Technology, SHI, SoftwareONE,
Computacenter, Specialist Computercenters, Bechtle, and Cancom;


 

 
•
 
National and regional resellers, including value-added resellers, specialty retailers,
aggregators, distributors, and to a lesser extent, national computer retailers, computer
superstores, Internet-only computer providers, consumer electronics and office supply
superstores and mass merchandisers;


 

 
•
 
Product manufacturers, such as Dell, HP, IBM and Lenovo;


 

 
•
 
Software publishers, such as IBM, Microsoft and Symantec;


 

 
•
 
Systems integrators, such as Compucom Systems, Inc.;


 

 
•
 
National and global service providers, such as IBM Global Services and HP/EDS; and


 

 
•
 
E-tailers, such as New Egg, Buy.com and e-Buyer (United Kingdom).



The competitive landscape in the industry is continually changing as various competitors
expand their product and service offerings. In addition, emerging models such as cloud computing
are creating new competitors and opportunities.

For a discussion of risks associated with the actions of our competitors, see “Risk Factors —
The IT hardware, software and services industry is intensely competitive, and actions of our
competitors, including manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, can negatively affect our
business,” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

Partners

During 2011, we purchased products and software from approximately 5,400 partners.
Approximately 60% (based on dollar volume) of these purchases were directly from manufacturers or
software publishers, with the balance purchased through distributors. Purchases from Microsoft,
Ingram Micro (a distributor) and HP accounted for approximately 18%, 11% and 11%, respectively, of
our aggregate purchases in 2011. No other partner accounted for more than 10% of purchases in
2011. Our top five partners as a group for 2011 were Microsoft, Ingram Micro, HP, Cisco and Tech
Data (a distributor), and approximately 56% of our total purchases during 2011 came from this group
of partners. Although brand names and individual products are important to our business, we
believe that competitive sources of supply are available in substantially all of our product
categories such that, with the exception of Microsoft, we are not dependent on any single partner
for sourcing products.

We obtain incentives from certain product manufacturers, software publishers and distribution
partners based typically upon the volume of sales or purchases of their products and services. In
other cases, such incentives may be in the form of participation in our partner programs, which may
require specific services or activities with our clients, discounts, marketing funds, price
protection or rebates. Manufacturers and publishers may also provide mailing lists, contacts or
leads to us. We believe that these incentives (or partner funding) allow us to increase our
marketing reach and strengthen our relationships with leading manufacturers and publishers. This
funding is important to us, and any elimination or substantial reduction would increase our costs
of goods sold or marketing expenses, resulting in a corresponding decrease in our earnings from
operations.

During 2011, sales of Microsoft, HP and Cisco products accounted for approximately 26%, 16%
and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. No other manufacturer’s products accounted
for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales in 2011. Sales of product from our top five
manufacturers/publishers as a group (Microsoft, HP, Cisco, Lenovo and Adobe) accounted for
approximately 62% of Insight’s consolidated net sales during 2011.

 

9



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

We are focused on understanding our partners’ objectives and developing plans and programs to
grow our mutual businesses. We measure partner satisfaction regularly and hold quarterly business
reviews with our largest partners to review business results from the prior quarter, discuss plans
for the future and obtain feedback. Additionally, we host annual partner conferences in North
America, EMEA and APAC to articulate our plans for the upcoming year.

As we move into new service areas, we may become even more reliant on certain partner
relationships. For a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on partners, see “Risk
Factors — We rely on our partners for product
availability and competitive products to sell, and we also compete with many of our partners”
and “— We rely on our partners for marketing funds and purchasing incentives,” in Part I, Item 1A
of this report.

Teammates

As of December 31, 2011, we employed 5,386 teammates, of whom 3,042 were engaged in
management, support services and administration activities, 2,179 were engaged in sales related
activities, and 165 were engaged in distribution activities. Our teammates are not represented by
a labor union, and we have never experienced a labor related work stoppage.

For a discussion of risks associated with our dependence on key personnel, including sales
personnel, see “Risk Factors — We depend on certain key personnel,” in Part I, Item 1A of this
report.

Seasonality

We experience some seasonal trends in our sales of IT hardware, software and services. For
example:




 
•
 
software sales are typically seasonally higher in our second and fourth quarters,
particularly the second quarter;


 

 
•
 
business clients, particularly larger enterprise businesses in the U.S., tend to
spend more in our fourth quarter as they utilize their remaining capital budget
authorizations, and less in the first quarter;


 

 
•
 
sales to the federal government in the U.S. are often stronger in our third quarter;
and


 

 
•
 
sales to public sector clients in the United Kingdom are often stronger in our first
quarter.



These trends create overall seasonality in our consolidated results such that sales and
profitability are expected to be higher in the second and fourth quarters of the year. For a
discussion of risks associated with seasonality see “Risk Factors — Our net sales and gross profit
have historically varied, making our future operating results less predictable,” in Part I, Item 1A
of this report.

Backlog

The majority of our backlog historically has been and continues to be open cancelable purchase
orders. We do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is predictive of future results.

Intellectual Property

We do not maintain a traditional research and development group, but we do develop and seek to
protect a range of intellectual property, including trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain
name rights, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property relying, for such
protection, on applicable statutes and common law rights, trade-secret protection and
confidentiality and license agreements, as applicable, with teammates, clients, partners and others
to protect our intellectual property rights. Our principal trademark is a registered mark, and we
also license certain of our proprietary intellectual property rights to third parties. We have
registered a number of domain names, applied for registration of other marks in the U.S. and in
select international jurisdictions, and, from time to time, filed patent applications. We believe
our trademarks and service marks, in particular, have significant value, and we continue to invest
in the promotion of our trademarks and service marks and in our protection of them.

Available Information

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and the reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on our web site at www.insight.com,
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our web site is not included as a
part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

10



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.










Item 1A. Risk Factors



We rely on our partners for product availability and competitive products to sell, and we
also compete with many of our partners. We acquire products for resale both directly from
manufacturers and publishers and indirectly through
distributors, and the loss of a significant partner relationship could cause a disruption in the
availability of products to us. Most of our manufacturer and publisher partners are also our
competitors, as many sell directly to business clients and, particularly, larger corporate clients.
There is no assurance that, as manufacturers and publishers continue to sell both through the
reseller channel and directly to end users, they will not limit or curtail the availability of
their product to resellers like us. In addition, the manner in which publishers distribute
software is changing, and many publishers now offer their programs as cloud, hosted or SaaS
solutions. These changes in distribution may intensify competition and increase the volume of
software made available to end users through these competitive programs. Any significant increase
in such sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

We rely on our partners for marketing funds and purchasing incentives. Certain manufacturers,
publishers and distributors provide us with substantial incentives in the form of rebates,
marketing funds, purchasing incentives, early payment discounts, referral fees and price
protections. Partner funding is used to offset, among other things, inventory costs, costs of
goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our
volume of sales or purchases, growth rate of net sales or purchases and marketing programs. If we
do not grow our net sales over prior periods or if we are not in compliance with the terms of these
programs, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to
us by manufacturers and publishers. We anticipate that in the future the incentives that many
partners make available to us may either be reduced or that the requirements for earning the
available amounts will change. If we are unable to react timely to any fundamental changes in the
programs of publishers or manufacturers, including the elimination of, or significant reductions
in, funding for some of the activities for which we have been compensated in the past, particularly
related to incentive programs with our largest partners, HP and Microsoft, the changes could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. No
assurance can be given that we will continue to receive such incentives.

Disruptions in our IT systems and voice and data networks, including the integration and
upgrade of our IT systems, could affect our ability to service our clients and cause us to incur
additional expenses. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of
operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient
service to our clients. Our ability to provide that level of service is largely dependent on the
ease of use, accuracy, quality and utilization of our IT systems, which affects our ability to
manage our sales, client service, distribution, inventories and accounting systems, and the
reliability of our voice and data networks and managed services offerings. Our plan is to fully
integrate our IT systems in North America onto an integrated platform by the end of 2012.
Significant internal and external resources have been devoted to the successful completion of this
project. In 2012, we expect to incur additional selling and administrative expenses of $5 to $10
million and capital expenditures of $2 to $5 million to support the project through to completion.
We are also in the process of converting our EMEA operations to a new IT system platform. There
can be no assurances that these integration and conversion projects will not cause disruptions in
our business, and any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition. Any delay in the projects or disruption of service during
those projects could have an adverse effect on current results and future sales growth. Further,
any delay in the timing could reduce and/or delay our anticipated expense savings, and any such
delay could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Additionally, if, as a result of these projects, existing technology is determined to have a
shorter useful life or the value of the existing system is impaired, we could incur additional
depreciation expense and/or impairment charges. Although we have built redundancy into most of our
IT systems, have documented system outage policies and procedures and have comprehensive data
backup, we do not have a formal disaster recovery plan. Substantial interruption in our IT systems
or in our voice and data networks, however caused, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

General economic conditions, including unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region,
business or industry sector, may lead our clients to delay or forgo investments in IT hardware,
software and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating
results. Weak economic conditions generally or any broad-based reduction in IT spending adversely
affects our business, operating results and financial condition. A prolonged slowdown in the
global economy, or in a particular region or business or industry sector, such as the debt levels
and financial viability of some European countries and lenders to those countries, or tightening of
credit markets, could cause our clients to have difficulty accessing capital and credit sources,
delay contractual payments, or delay or forgo decisions to (i) upgrade or add to their existing IT
environments, (ii) license new software or (iii) purchase services (particularly with respect to
discretionary spending for hardware, software and services). Such events could adversely affect
our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.

 

11



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

The failure of our clients to pay the accounts receivable they owe to us or the loss of
significant clients could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of
operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion
of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from clients. If clients comprising a
significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for
products and services, our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could
be adversely affected. Economic or industry downturns could result in longer payment cycles,
increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant
deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could also impact the cost or
availability of financing under our accounts receivable securitization program, which is discussed
below.

Failure to adequately maintain the security of our electronic and other confidential
information could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Privacy, security, and
compliance concerns have continued to increase as technology has evolved to facilitate commerce and
as cross-border commerce increases. As part of our normal business activities, we collect and
store certain confidential information, including personal information of teammates and information
about partners and clients which may be entitled to protection under a number of regulatory
regimes. In the course of normal and customary business practice, we may share some of this information with vendors who assist us with certain aspects of
our business. Moreover, the success of our operations depends upon the secure transmission of
confidential and personal data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. Any
failure on the part of us or our vendors to maintain the security of data we are required to
protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of
confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our
reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and
private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our
teammates’, partners’ and clients’ confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and thus
could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

The IT hardware, software and services industry is intensely competitive, and actions of our
competitors, including manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, can negatively affect our
business. Competition in the industry is based on price, product availability, speed of delivery,
credit availability, quality and breadth of product lines, and, increasingly, on the ability to
tailor specific solutions to client needs. In addition to the manufacturers and publishers of
products we sell, we compete with a large number and wide variety of providers and resellers of IT
hardware, software and services. Additionally, we believe our industry will see further
consolidation as product resellers and direct marketers combine operations or acquire or merge with
other resellers, service providers and direct marketers to increase efficiency, service
capabilities and market share. Moreover, current and potential competitors have established or may
establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their product
and service offerings. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among
competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. Generally, pricing is very aggressive
in the industry, and we expect pricing pressures to continue. There can be no assurance that we
will be able to negotiate prices as favorable as those negotiated by our competitors or that we
will be able to offset the effects of price reductions with an increase in the number of clients,
higher net sales, cost reductions, greater sales of services, which are typically at higher gross
margins, or otherwise. Price reductions by our competitors that we either cannot or choose not to
match could result in an erosion of our market share and/or reduced sales or, to the extent we
match such reductions, could result in reduced operating margins, any of which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Certain of our competitors in each of our operating segments have longer operating histories
and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of
these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities,
technologies and client requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater
name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms
to their customers and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. Additionally, some of
our competitors have higher margins and/or lower operating cost structures, allowing them to price
more aggressively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with
current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

12



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

The cloud and “as a service” models may disrupt or alter the IT market in a significant way.
In many cases, these new distribution models allow enterprises to obtain the benefits of
commercially licensed, internally operated software with less complexity and lower initial set-up,
operational and licensing costs. Advances in such models and other new models could introduce new
competitors in the IT industry, increase our competition or reduce the need for a resale
channel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt to, or compete effectively with,
current or future distribution channels or competitors or that the competitive pressures we face
will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

The integration and operation of acquired businesses may disrupt our business and create
additional expenses, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.
Integration of an acquired business involves numerous risks, including assimilation of operations
of the acquired business and difficulties in the convergence of IT systems, the diversion of
management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have had
no or only limited direct experience, assumption of unknown and unquantifiable liabilities, the
potential loss of key teammates and/or clients, difficulties in completing strategic initiatives
already underway in the acquired companies, and unfamiliarity with partners of the acquired
company, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition. The success of our integration of acquired businesses assumes certain
synergies and other benefits. We cannot assure that these risks or other unforeseen factors will
not offset the intended benefits of the acquisitions, in whole or in part.

Changes in the IT industry and/or rapid changes in product standards may result in substantial
inventory obsolescence and may reduce demand for the IT hardware, software and services we sell.
Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT
industry, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and
services, and industry introductions of new products. The IT industry is characterized by rapid
technological change and the frequent introduction of new products, which can decrease demand for
current products or render them obsolete. If we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes,
this may cause us to record write-downs of obsolete inventory. In addition, in order to satisfy
client demand, protect ourselves against product shortages, obtain greater purchasing discounts and
react to changes in original equipment manufacturers’ terms and conditions, we may decide to carry
inventory products that may have limited or no return privileges. There can be no assurance that
we will be able to avoid losses related to inventory obsolescence on these products.

The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our commercial and public sector
contracts could result in, among other things, damages, fines or other liabilities. Sales to
commercial clients are based on stated contract terms or terms contained in purchase orders on a
transaction by transaction basis. Sales to public sector clients are derived from sales to
federal, state and local governmental departments and agencies, as well as to educational
institutions, through open market sales and various contracts and programs. Noncompliance with
contract terms, particularly in the highly regulated public sector business, or with government
procurement regulations could result in damage awards against us or termination of contracts, and,
in the public sector, could also result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability. With
respect to our public sector business, the government’s remedies may include suspension or
debarment. In addition, almost all of our contracts have default provisions, and substantially all
of our contracts in the public sector are terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting
agency. The effect of any of these possible actions or the adoption of new or modified procurement
regulations or practices could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and
results of operations.

We have outstanding debt and will need to refinance that debt and/or incur additional debt in
the future, and general economic conditions and continued volatility in the credit markets could
limit our ability to obtain such financing or could increase the cost of financing. Our credit
facilities include a five-year $300.0 million senior revolving credit facility, a $150.0 million
accounts receivable securitization financing facility (the “ABS facility”), and a $150.0 million
inventory financing facility. As of December 31, 2011, we had $116.6 million of outstanding
indebtedness, of which $115.0 million was borrowed under our senior revolving credit facility and
$1.6 million was outstanding under a capital lease obligation. As of the end of fiscal 2011, the
following amounts were available under our credit facilities, subject to the limitations discussed
below:




 
•
 
$185.0 million under our senior revolving credit facility;


 

 
•
 
$150.0 million under our accounts receivable securitization financing facility; and


 

 
•
 
$56.1 million under our inventory financing facility.



Our consolidated debt balance that can be outstanding at the end of any fiscal quarter under
our senior revolving credit facility and our ABS facility is limited by certain financial
covenants, particularly a maximum leverage ratio. The maximum leverage ratio is calculated as
aggregate debt outstanding divided by the sum of the Company’s trailing 12-month net earnings
plus (i) interest expense, excluding non-cash imputed interest on our inventory financing facility,
(ii) income tax expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization and (iv) non-cash stock-based
compensation (referred to herein as “adjusted earnings”). The maximum leverage ratio permitted
under the agreements was 2.50 times the Company’s trailing 12-month adjusted earnings as of
December 31, 2011. A significant drop in the Company’s adjusted earnings would limit the amount of
indebtedness that could be outstanding at the end of any fiscal quarter, to a level that could be
below the Company’s consolidated maximum debt capacity. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s
total
debt balance that could have been outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility and
our ABS facility was equal to the maximum available under the facilities of $450.0 million.

 

13



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Our borrowing capacity under our ABS facility is limited by the value and quality of the
accounts receivable under the facility. While the ABS facility has a stated maximum amount of
$150.0 million, the actual availability under the facility is limited by the quantity and quality
of the underlying accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2011, the full $150.0 million was
available.

Our senior revolving credit facility, ABS facility and inventory financing facility all mature
on April 1, 2013. We may not be able to refinance our debt without a significant increase in cost,
or at all, and there can be no assurance that additional lines of credit or financing instruments
will be available to us. A lack, or high cost, of credit could limit our ability to: obtain
additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
acquisitions or other purposes in the future, as needed; plan for, or react to, changes in
technology and in our business and competition; or react in the event of an economic downturn.

We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be able to meet our capital requirements.
The future effects on our business, liquidity and financial results of these conditions could be
material and adverse to us, both in ways described above and in other ways that we do not currently
foresee.

Our net sales and gross profit have historically varied, making our future operating results
less predictable. Our operating results are highly dependent upon our level of gross profit as a
percentage of net sales, which fluctuates due to numerous factors, including changes in prices from
partners, changes in the amount and timing of partner funding, volumes of purchases, changes in
client mix, the relative mix of products sold during the period, general competitive conditions,
and strategic product and services pricing and purchasing actions. In addition, our expense levels
are based, in part, on anticipated net sales and the anticipated amount and timing of partner
funding. Therefore, we may not be able to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for any
unexpected net sales shortfall, and any such inability could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

In addition, a reduction in the amount of credit granted to us by our partners could increase
our need for and cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to stockholder litigation and regulatory proceedings related to the restatement
of our consolidated financial statements. In 2008, we identified errors in the Company’s
accounting related to trade credits in prior periods and determined that corrections to our
consolidated financial statements were required to reverse material prior period reductions of
costs of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses because of the incorrect releases of
certain aged trade credits. Our internal review and related activities have required the Company
to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, and
ongoing litigation could require further, significant expenditures and could harm our business,
reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, if the Company is
subject to adverse findings in litigation, the Company could be required to pay damages or
penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm its business, reputation, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
Part II, Item 8 of this report.

There are risks associated with our international operations that are different than the risks
associated with our operations in the United States, and our exposure to the risks of a global
market could hinder our ability to maintain and expand international operations. We have operation
centers in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the U.S., and the United Kingdom, as well as sales
offices in Austria, Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong
Kong, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United
Kingdom and the U.S., and sales presence in Finland, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal. In the
regions in which we do not currently have a physical presence, such as Africa, Japan and India,

 

14



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

we serve our clients through strategic relationships. In implementing our international strategy, we
may face barriers to entry and competition from local companies and other companies that already
have established global businesses, as well as the risks generally associated with conducting
business internationally. The success and profitability of international operations are subject to
numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, such as:




 
•
 
political or economic instability;


 

 
•
 
changes in governmental regulation or taxation;


 

 
•
 
currency exchange fluctuations;


 

 
•
 
changes in import/export laws, regulations and customs and duties;


 

 
•
 
trade restrictions;


 

 
•
 
difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries;


 

 
•
 
work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions;


 

 
•
 
taxes and other restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.;


 

 
•
 
extended payment terms; and


 

 
•
 
seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world.



In addition, until a payment history is established with clients in a new region, the
likelihood of collecting receivables generated by such operations, on a timely basis or at all,
could be less than in established markets. As a result, there is a greater risk that reserves
established with respect to the collection of such receivables may be inadequate. Furthermore,
changes in policies and/or laws of the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other
changes, higher taxation, tariffs or similar protectionist laws, currency conversion limitations or
the nationalization of private enterprises could reduce the anticipated benefits of international
operations. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that
encourage foreign trade could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition.

We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign
currencies, including intercompany transactions outside the U.S. Changes in exchange rates between
foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, or between foreign currencies, may adversely affect our
operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it
will become more expensive in U.S. dollars to pay expenses with foreign currencies. In addition,
currency devaluation against the U.S. dollar can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits
denominated in the devalued currency. We currently conduct limited hedging activities, and, to the
extent not hedged, we are vulnerable to the effects of currency exchange-rate fluctuations. In
addition, some currencies are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can
limit the ability to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. We cannot predict
with precision the effect of future exchange-rate fluctuations on our business and operating
results, and significant rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on results of
operations and financial condition.

International operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial
statements of our foreign operations to U.S. dollars.

Changes in, interpretations of, or enforcement trends related to, tax rules and regulations
may adversely affect our effective income tax rates or operating margins and we may be required to
pay additional tax assessments. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in
various U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by
various factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:




 
•
 
changes in pre-tax income in various jurisdictions in which we operate that have
differing statutory tax rates;


 

 
•
 
higher corporate tax rates and the availability of deductions or credits in the U.S. and
elsewhere;


 

 
•
 
changes in tax laws, regulations, and/or interpretations of such tax laws in multiple
jurisdictions;


 

 
•
 
tax effects related to purchase accounting for acquisitions; and


 

 
•
 
resolutions of issues arising from tax examinations and any related interest or
penalties.



The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities
requires estimation, judgment and calculations in situations where the ultimate tax determination
may not be certain. Our determination of tax liabilities is always subject to review or
examination by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Any adverse outcome of such review or
examination could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. The
results from various tax examinations and audits may differ from the liabilities recorded in our
financial statements and may adversely affect our financial results and cash flows.

 

15



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

We depend on certain key personnel. Our future success will be largely dependent on the
efforts of key management teammates. The loss of one or more of these leaders could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot
offer assurance that we will be able to continue to attract or retain highly qualified executive
personnel or that any such executive personnel will be able to increase stockholder value. We also
believe that our future success will be largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and
retain highly qualified management, sales, service and technical teammates, but we cannot offer
assurance that we will be able
to attract and retain such personnel. Further, we make a significant investment in the
training of our sales account executives and services engineers. Our inability to retain such
personnel or to train them either rapidly enough to meet our expanding needs or in an effective
manner for quickly changing market conditions could cause a decrease in the overall quality and
efficiency of our sales teammates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.

We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately, and we may be subject to
intellectual property infringement claims. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on
copyright and trademark laws, unpatented proprietary know-how, and trade secrets and patents, as
well as confidentiality, invention assignment, non-solicitation and non-competition agreements.
There can be no assurance that these measures will afford us sufficient protection of our
intellectual property, and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use
our proprietary information without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual
property rights. The disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position and
could have a material adverse effect on our business relationships, results of operations,
financial condition and future growth prospects. In addition, our registered trademarks and trade
names are subject to challenge by other rights owners. This may affect our ability to continue
using those marks and names. Likewise, many businesses are actively investing in, developing and
seeking protection for intellectual property in the areas of search, indexing, e-commerce and other
Web-related technologies, as well as a variety of on-line business models and methods, all of which
are in addition to traditional research and development efforts for IT products and application
software, and non-practicing entities continue to invest in acquiring patent portfolios for the
purpose of turning the portfolios into income-generating assets, whether through licensing
campaigns or litigation. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of and the right to use
these technologies are likely to arise in the future, and, from time to time, parties do assert
various infringement claims against us, either because of our practices or because we resell
allegedly infringing hardware or software, in the form of cease-and-desist letters, licensing
inquiries, lawsuits and other communications and demands. If there is a determination that we have
infringed the proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be
forced to stop selling infringing products or providing infringing services, be required to enter
into costly royalty or licensing agreements, if available, or be prevented from using the rights,
which could force us to change our business practices or hardware, software or services offerings
in the future. Additionally, as we increase the geographic scope of our operations and the types
of services provided under the Insight brand, there is a greater likelihood that we will encounter
challenges to our trade names, trademarks and service marks. We may not be able to use our
principal mark without modification in all geographies for all of our offerings, and these
challenges may come from either governmental agencies or other market participants. These types of
claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and
stockholders rights agreement, as well as provisions of Delaware law and executive employment
contracts, could impair a takeover attempt. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation
and bylaws which could have the effect (separately, or in combination) of rendering more difficult
or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include
provisions:




 
•
 
authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation,
dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;


 

 
•
 
limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, directors and officers;


 

 
•
 
limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;


 

 
•
 
requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at
meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of
Directors;


 

 
•
 
controlling the procedures for conduct of Board and stockholder meetings and election
and removal of directors; and


 

 
•
 
specifying that stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special
meeting of stockholders.


 

16



Table of Contents




INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

These provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests
and changes in control or management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions
of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some
stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of
substantially all of our outstanding common stock.

Our bylaws provide that the Company will seek stockholder approval prior to its adoption of
any stockholder rights plan, unless the Board, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, determines
that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best interest of our stockholders
to adopt or extend a stockholder rights plan without delay. The amendment further provides that a
stockholder rights plan adopted or extended by the Board without prior stockholder
approval must provide that it will expire unless ratified by the stockholders of the Company
within one year of adoption. Despite these bylaw provisions, we could adopt a stockholder rights
plan for a limited period of time, and such a plan could have the effect of delaying or deterring a
change of control that could limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their
shares.

Additionally, we have employment agreements with certain officers and management teammates
under which severance payments would become payable in the event of specified terminations without
cause or terminations under certain circumstances after a change in control. If such persons were
terminated without cause or under certain circumstances after a change of control, and the
severance payments under the current employment agreements were to become payable, the severance
payments would generally range from three months of a teammate’s annual salary up to two times the
teammate’s annual salary and bonus.

Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, employment agreements or Delaware
law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity
for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and also could
affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.




Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

 

17



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




Item 2. Properties

Our principal executive offices are located at 6820 South Harl Avenue, Tempe, Arizona
85283. We believe that our facilities will be suitable and adequate for our present purposes, and
we anticipate that we will be able to extend our existing leases on terms satisfactory to us or, if
necessary, to locate substitute facilities on acceptable terms. At December 31, 2011, we owned or
leased a total of approximately 1.3 million square feet of office and warehouse space, and, while
approximately 68% of the square footage is in the United States, we own or lease office and
warehouse facilities in 11 countries in EMEA and we lease office facilities in four countries in
APAC.

Information about significant sales, distribution, services and administration facilities in
use as of December 31, 2011 is summarized in the following table:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Operating Segment
 
Location
 
Primary Activities
 
Own or Lease




Headquarters

 
Tempe, Arizona, USA

 
Executive Offices, Sales
and Administration

 
Own


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


North America

 
Tempe, Arizona, USA

 
Sales and Administration

 
Own


 

 
Tempe, Arizona, USA

 
Administration

 
Own


 

 
Tempe, Arizona, USA

 
Network Operations Center

 
Lease


 

 
Bloomingdale, Illinois, USA

 
Sales and Administration

 
Own


 

 
Hanover Park, Illinois, USA

 
Services, Distribution
and Administration

 
Lease


 

 
Plano, Texas, USA

 
Sales and Administration

 
Lease


 

 
Liberty Lake, Washington, USA

 
Sales and Administration

 
Lease


 

 
Tampa, Florida, USA

 
Sales and Administration

 
Lease


 

 
Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada

 
Sales and Administration

 
Lease


 

 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada

 
Sales and Administration

 
Own


 

 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada

 
Distribution

 
Lease


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


EMEA

 
Sheffield, United Kingdom

 
Sales and Administration

 
Own


 

 
Sheffield, United Kingdom

 
Distribution

 
Lease


 

 
Uxbridge, United Kingdom

 
Sales and Administration

 
Lease


 

 
Munich, Germany

 
Sales and Administration

 
Lease


 

 
Paris, France

 
Sales and Administration

 
Lease


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


APAC

 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia

 
 Sales and Administration

 
Lease




In addition to those listed above, we have leased sales offices in various cities across North
America, EMEA and APAC. For additional information on operating leases, see Note 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. These properties are not
included in the table above. A portion of the administration facilities that we own in Tempe,
Arizona included in the table above is currently leased to Direct Alliance Corporation, a
discontinued operation that was sold to a third party in 2006.




Item 3. Legal Proceedings

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. For an additional discussion of certain risks
associated with legal proceedings, see “Risk Factors — We are subject to stockholder litigation
and regulatory proceedings related to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements,” in
Part I, Item 1A of this report.




Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

None.

 

18



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




PART II




Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Our common stock trades under the symbol “NSIT” on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. The
following table shows, for the calendar quarters indicated, the high and low sales price per share
for our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Common Stock
 


Year 2011
 
High Price
 
Low Price
 




Fourth Quarter
 
$
18.24
 
$
13.01
 


Third Quarter
 
 
19.52
 
 
14.68
 


Second Quarter
 
 
17.99
 
 
15.40
 


First Quarter
 
 
19.10
 
 
13.60
 


Year 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Fourth Quarter
 
$
16.66
 
$
12.61
 


Third Quarter
 
 
16.01
 
 
12.37
 


Second Quarter
 
 
16.27
 
 
13.16
 


First Quarter
 
 
14.84
 
 
11.47
 




As of February 17, 2012, we had 43,950,539 shares of common stock outstanding held by
approximately 90 stockholders of record. This figure does not include an estimate of the number of
beneficial holders whose shares are held of record by brokerage firms and clearing agencies.

We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to reinvest all
of our earnings into our business and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable
future. Our senior revolving credit facility contains restrictions on the payment of cash
dividends.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

On May 26, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase
of up to $50.0 million of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased
2,897,493 shares of our common stock on the open market at an average price of $17.26 per share,
which represented the full amount authorized under the repurchase program. All shares repurchased
were retired. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter of
2011.

 

19



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Stock Price Performance Graph

Set forth below is a graph comparing the percentage change in the cumulative total
stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Nasdaq Stock Market
U.S. Companies (Market Index) and the Nasdaq Retail Trade Stocks (Peer Index) for the period
starting January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2011. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on
January 1, 2007 in our common stock and in each of the two Nasdaq indices, and that, as to such
indices, dividends were reinvested. We have not, since our inception, paid any cash dividends on
our common stock. Historical stock price performance shown on the graph is not necessarily
indicative of future price performance.







 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Jan. 1,
 
 
Dec. 31,
 
 
Dec. 31,
 
 
Dec. 31,
 
 
Dec. 31,
 
 
Dec. 31,
 


 
 
2007
 
 
2007
 
 
2008
 
 
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 




Insight
Enterprises, Inc.
Common Stock (NSIT)

 
 
100.00
 
 
 
96.51
 
 
 
36.51
 
 
 
60.42
 
 
 
69.63
 
 
 
80.90
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Nasdaq Stock Market
U.S. Companies
(Market Index)

 
 
100.00
 
 
 
108.47
 
 
 
66.35
 
 
 
95.38
 
 
 
113.19
 
 
 
113.81
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Nasdaq Retail Trade 
Stocks (Peer Index)

 
 
100.00
 
 
 
90.99
 
 
 
63.49
 
 
 
88.19
 
 
 
110.46
 
 
 
124.39
 




 

20



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto in Part II, Item 8 and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of
this report. The selected consolidated financial data presented below under the captions
“Consolidated Statements of Operations Data” and “Consolidated Balance Sheet Data” as of and for
each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2011 is derived from our audited
consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2011
and 2010, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, which have
been audited by KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, are included in Part
II, Item 8 of this report.





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 


 
 
(in thousands, except per share data)
 




Consolidated Statements of Operations
Data (1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net sales
 
$
5,287,228
 
 
$
4,809,930
 
 
$
4,136,905
 
 
$
4,825,489
 
 
$
4,805,474
 


Costs of goods sold
 
 
4,578,071
 
 
 
4,163,833
 
 
 
3,568,291
 
 
 
4,161,906
 
 
 
4,146,848
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Gross profit
 
 
709,157
 
 
 
646,097
 
 
 
568,614
 
 
 
663,583
 
 
 
658,626
 


Operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Selling and administrative expenses
 
 
556,689
 
 
 
519,065
 
 
 
502,102
 
 
 
561,987
 
 
 
542,322
 


Goodwill impairment
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
397,247
 
 
 
—
 


Severance and restructuring expenses
 
 
5,085
 
 
 
2,956
 
 
 
13,608
 
 
 
8,595
 
 
 
2,595
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings (loss) from operations
 
 
147,383
 
 
 
124,076
 
 
 
52,904
 
 
 
(304,246
)
 
 
113,709
 


Non-operating (income) expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Interest income
 
 
(1,686
)
 
 
(714
)
 
 
(424
)
 
 
(2,387
)
 
 
(2,078
)


Interest expense
 
 
6,927
 
 
 
7,677
 
 
 
10,790
 
 
 
13,479
 
 
 
12,852
 


Net foreign currency exchange (gain) loss
 
 
(1,136
)
 
 
522
 
 
 
(328
)
 
 
9,629
 
 
 
(3,887
)


Other expense, net
 
 
1,589
 
 
 
1,417
 
 
 
1,123
 
 
 
1,107
 
 
 
1,531
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
 
 
141,689
 
 
 
115,174
 
 
 
41,743
 
 
 
(326,074
)
 
 
105,291
 


Income tax expense (benefit)
 
 
41,454
 
 
 
39,689
 
 
 
10,970
 
 
 
(86,347
)
 
 
40,686
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
100,235
 
 
 
75,485
 
 
 
30,773
 
 
 
(239,727
)
 
 
64,605
 


Earnings from discontinued
operations, net of taxes
(2)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
2,801
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
4,151
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings (loss)
 
$
100,235
 
 
$
75,485
 
 
$
33,574
 
 
$
(239,727
)
 
$
68,756
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings (loss) per share — Basic:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
2.20
 
 
$
1.63
 
 
$
0.67
 
 
$
(5.15
)
 
$
1.32
 


Net earnings from discontinued operations (2)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
0.06
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
0.08
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings (loss) per share
 
$
2.20
 
 
$
1.63
 
 
$
0.73
 
 
$
(5.15
)
 
$
1.40
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings (loss) per share — Diluted:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
2.18
 
 
$
1.61
 
 
$
0.67
 
 
$
(5.15
)
 
$
1.29
 


Net earnings from discontinued operations (2)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
0.06
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
0.08
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings (loss) per share
 
$
2.18
 
 
$
1.61
 
 
$
0.73
 
 
$
(5.15
)
 
$
1.37
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Shares used in per share calculations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Basic
 
 
45,474
 
 
 
46,218
 
 
 
45,838
 
 
 
46,573
 
 
 
49,055
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Diluted
 
 
46,021
 
 
 
46,812
 
 
 
46,271
 
 
 
46,573
 
 
 
50,120
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 

21



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 




Consolidated Balance Sheet Data
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Working capital
 
$
426,517
 
 
$
352,182
 
 
$
297,485
 
 
$
318,867
 
 
$
418,474
 


Total assets
 
 
1,857,611
 
 
 
1,803,283
 
 
 
1,603,321
 
 
 
1,607,503
 
 
 
1,890,730
 


Short-term debt
 
 
1,017
 
 
 
997
 
 
 
875
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
15,000
 


Long-term debt
 
 
115,602
 
 
 
91,619
 
 
 
149,349
 
 
 
228,000
 
 
 
187,250
 


Stockholders’ equity
 
 
596,832
 
 
 
544,971
 
 
 
467,574
 
 
 
421,968
 
 
 
741,738
 


Cash dividends declared per common share
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 






 
 
 


(1)
 
Our consolidated statements of operations data above includes results of the
acquisitions from their dates of acquisition: Ensynch from October 1, 2011; MINX from July 10,
2008; and Calence from April 1, 2008.

 

(2)
 
Earnings from Discontinued Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we
recorded earnings from a discontinued operation of $4.5 million, $2.8 million net of tax, as a
result of the favorable settlement on July 7, 2009 of an arbitrated claim related to the sale
of Direct Alliance, a former subsidiary that was sold on June 30, 2006. During the year ended
December 31, 2007, we sold PC Wholesale, a division of our North America operating segment.
Accordingly, we have accounted for PC Wholesale as a discontinued operation and have reported
its results of operations as discontinued operations in the December 31, 2007 Consolidated
Statement of Operations. Included in earnings from discontinued operations for the year ended
December 31, 2007 is the gain on the sale of PC Wholesale of $5.6 million, $3.4 million net of
taxes.


 

22



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 




Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of our operations
should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included
in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Our actual results could differ materially from those contained
in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in “Risk
Factors” in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this report.

Overview

We are a global provider of information technology (“IT”) hardware, software and services
solutions to businesses and public sector institutions in North America, Europe, the Middle East,
Africa and Asia-Pacific. Currently, our offerings in North America, the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands and Germany include IT hardware, software and services. Our offerings in the remainder
of our EMEA segment and in APAC are almost entirely software and select software-related services.

Our vision is to be the trusted advisor to our clients, helping them enhance business
performance through innovative technology solutions. Our strategy is to grow market share and
profitability by delivering relevant product, service and solutions offerings to our clients on a
scalable support and delivery platform.

In 2011, we executed on our strategic initiatives while at the same time keeping a disciplined
focus on our expenses. In the first half of 2011, our business continued to benefit from strong
momentum in IT spending resulting from the initial post-recession refresh cycle, while in the
second half of 2011, we saw certain large enterprise clients reduce their IT spending. During  the fourth quarter of 2011, we began  seeing the effects of changes to our largest software
partner’s channel incentive programs on our software sales, began selling hardware in the
Netherlands and Germany, expanding our hardware footprint, and acquired Ensynch in the U.S. to
expand our services business.

Solid sales performance combined with operating leverage from controlling our selling and
administrative expense resulted in double digit growth in earnings from operations and operating
margin expansion on a consolidated basis. While the market for IT products moderated somewhat in
the second half of the year from the double-digit sales growth we experienced in the previous five
consecutive quarters coming out of the recession, our sales performance and disciplined cost
management drove financial performance ahead of our expectations.

On a consolidated basis, for the year ended December 31, 2011, our net sales and resulting
gross profit both increased by 10%, while gross margin held steady at 13.4%. Net sales for the
year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 10% in North
America, 7% in EMEA and 36% in APAC. We reported earnings from operations of $147.4 million, an
improvement of 19% compared to the prior year, which represented 2.8% of net sales, up 20 basis
points year over year. Net earnings and diluted net earnings per share were $100.2 million and
$2.18, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. In 2010, we reported net earnings from
continuing operations of $75.5 million and diluted net earnings per share of $1.61. In 2009, we
reported net earnings from continuing operations of $30.8 million, diluted net earnings from
continuing operations per share of $0.67 and net earnings from a discontinued operation of $2.8
million, net of tax, or $0.06 per share, as a result of the favorable settlement on July 7, 2009 of
an arbitrated claim related to the sale of Direct Alliance, a former subsidiary that was sold on
June 30, 2006.

The results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 include the following items:




 
•
 
severance and restructuring expenses of $5.1 million, $3.4 million net of tax;


 

 
•
 
tax benefits of $8.6 million primarily related to the recognition of foreign
tax credits upon the reorganization of certain of our foreign operations and to
other tax matters; and


 

 
•
 
the repurchase of approximately 2.9 million shares of the Company’s common
stock for $50.0 million.



The results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 include the following items:




 
•
 
severance and restructuring expenses of $3.0 million, $1.9 million net of tax;
and


 

 
•
 
a tax benefit of $1.6 million related to the recapitalization of one of our
foreign subsidiaries.


 

23



Table of Contents




INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

The results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 include the effect of the
following items:




 
•
 
severance and restructuring expenses of $13.6 million, $8.8 million net of tax;


 

 
•
 
professional fees and costs associated with the trade credits restatement
remediation and related litigation of $8.3 million, $5.1 million net of tax, and
interest expense related to our anticipated unclaimed property settlement under
two state programs of $2.0 million, $1.2 million net of tax;


 

 
•
 
a non-cash charge related to the termination of an equity incentive
compensation plan of $5.5 million, $3.5 million net of tax;


 

 
•
 
a tax benefit of $3.3 million related to a recapitalization of one of our
foreign subsidiaries and the true-up of certain foreign tax assets;


 

 
•
 
a $1.5 million tax benefit from the true-up of foreign tax credits after filing
the Company’s 2008 U.S. federal tax return and the recognition of certain tax
benefits from the settlement of audits; and


 

 
•
 
a tax charge related to the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets of
$600,000.



Net of tax amounts referenced above were computed using the statutory tax rate for the taxing
jurisdictions in the operating segment in which the related expenses were recorded.

Effective October 1, 2011, we acquired Ensynch, Incorporated (“Ensynch”), a leading
professional services firm with multiple Microsoft Gold competencies across the complete Microsoft
solution set, including cloud migration and management. The acquisition of Ensynch did not have a
significant effect on results of operations in 2011.

During 2011, we generated $115.7 million of cash flows from operations. We utilized $40.9
million to fund capital investments associated with our IT systems upgrades and the acquisition of
Ensynch. We also utilized $50.0 million to buy back and retire common stock and made net
repayments of $41.2 million under our inventory financing facility during the year while only
increasing amounts outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility by $25.0 million year
over year. We ended the year with $128.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $115.0 million
of debt outstanding under our revolving credit facility.

Details about segment results of operations can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is intended to
assist in the understanding of our consolidated financial statements, the changes in certain key
items in those consolidated financial statements from year to year and the primary factors that
contributed to those changes, as well as how certain critical accounting estimates affect our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Critical Accounting Estimates

General

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). For a summary of significant accounting policies, see
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. The preparation
of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses. We base our estimates
on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results,
however, may differ from estimates we have made. Members of our senior management have discussed
the critical accounting estimates and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of our Board of
Directors.

 

24



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

We consider the following to be our critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of
our Consolidated Financial Statements:

Sales Recognition

Sales are recognized when title and risk of loss are passed to the client, there is persuasive
evidence of an arrangement for sale, delivery has occurred and/or services have been rendered, the
sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility
is reasonably assured. Our usual sales terms are F.O.B. shipping point or equivalent, at which
time title and risk of loss have passed to the client. However, because we either (i) have a
general practice of covering client losses while products are in transit despite title and risk of
loss contractually transferring at the point of shipment or (ii) have specifically stated F.O.B.
destination contractual terms with the client, delivery is not deemed to have occurred until the
point in time when the product is received by the client.

We make provisions for estimated product returns that we expect to occur under our return
policy based upon historical return rates. Our manufacturers warrant most of the products we
market, and it is our policy to request that clients return their defective products directly to
the manufacturer for warranty service. On selected products, and for selected client service
reasons, we may accept returns directly from the client and then either credit the client or ship a
replacement product. We generally offer a limited 15- to 30-day return policy for unopened
products and certain opened products, which are consistent with manufacturers’ terms; however, for
some products we may charge restocking fees. Products returned opened are processed and returned
to the manufacturer or partner for repair, replacement or credit to us. We resell most unopened
products returned to us. Products that cannot be returned to the manufacturer for warranty
processing but are in working condition are sold to inventory liquidators, to end users as
“previously sold” or “used” products, or through other channels to reduce our losses from returned
products.

We record the freight we bill to our clients as net sales and the related freight costs we pay
as costs of goods sold. We report sales net of any sales-based taxes assessed by governmental
authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with sales transactions.

Revenue is recognized from software sales when clients acquire the right to use or copy
software under license, but in no case prior to the commencement of the term of the initial
software license agreement, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met
(i.e., evidence of the arrangement exists, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectibility of
the fee is probable).

The sale of hardware and software products may also include the provision of services and the
associated contracts contain multiple elements or non-standard terms and conditions. Services that
are performed by us in conjunction with hardware and software sales that are completed in our
facilities prior to shipment of the product are recognized upon delivery, when title passes to the
client, for the hardware sale. Net sales of services that are performed at client locations are
often service-only contracts and are recorded as sales when the services are performed. If the services are performed at a client location in conjunction with a hardware,
software or other services sale, we recognize net sales for each portion of the overall arrangement
fee that is attributable to the items as they are delivered or the services are performed. At the inception of the arrangement, the
total consideration for the arrangement is allocated to all
deliverables using the relative selling price method. The relative selling price method allocates
any discount in the arrangement proportionately to each deliverable on the basis of each
deliverable’s selling price. We determine our best estimate of selling price in a manner that is
consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis.
The revenue allocation is based on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value of the
products. We currently do not have any material instances in which we account for revenue from multiple
element arrangements when vendor-specific evidence does not exist. If vendor-specific objective
evidence were not available, we would utilize third-party evidence to allocate the selling price.
If neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third- party evidence were available, estimated
selling price would be used for allocation purposes.

We sell certain third-party service contracts and software assurance or subscription products
for which we are not the primary obligor. These sales do not meet the criteria for gross sales
recognition and, thus, are recorded on a net sales recognition basis. As we enter into contracts
with third-party service providers or vendors, we evaluate whether the subsequent sales of such
services should be recorded as gross sales or net sales. We determine whether we act as a
principal in the transaction and assume the risks and rewards of ownership or if we are simply
acting as an agent or broker. Under gross sales recognition, the entire selling price is recorded
in sales and our cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded in costs of goods
sold. Under net sales recognition, the cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is
recorded as a reduction to sales, resulting in net sales equal to the gross profit on the
transaction, and there are no costs of goods sold.

 

25



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Sales of services under which the time period over which the service will be provided is
known, but for which there is no discernable pattern of recognition of the cost to perform the
service, are accounted for as subscriptions, with billings recorded as deferred revenue and
recognized as revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Revenue from certain arrangements
that allow for the use of a product or service over a period of time without taking possession of
software are also accounted for as subscriptions.

Additionally, we sell certain professional services contracts on a fixed fee basis. Revenues
for fixed fee professional services contracts are recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred
to total estimated costs. Net sales for these service contracts are not a significant portion of
our consolidated net sales.

Partner Funding

We receive payments and credits from partners, including consideration pursuant to volume
sales incentive programs, volume purchase incentive programs and shared marketing expense programs.
Partner funding received pursuant to volume sales incentive programs is recognized as it is earned
as a reduction to costs of goods sold. Partner funding received pursuant to volume purchase
incentive programs is allocated as a reduction to inventories based on the applicable incentives
earned from each partner and is recorded in costs of goods sold as the inventory is sold. Changes
in estimates of anticipated achievement levels under individual partner programs may affect our
results of operations and our cash flows.

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for
further discussion of our accounting policies related to partner funding.

Stock-Based Compensation

We recognize stock-based compensation net of an estimated forfeiture rate and only recognize
compensation expense for those shares expected to vest over the requisite service period of the
award. We primarily issue service-based and performance-based restricted stock units (“RSUs”).
The number of RSUs ultimately awarded under performance-based RSUs varies based on whether we
achieve certain financial results. We record compensation expense each period based on our
estimate of the most probable number of RSUs that will be issued under the grants of
performance-based RSUs. For any stock options awarded, modifications to previous awards or awards
of RSUs that are tied to specified market conditions, we use option pricing models or lattice
(binomial) models to determine fair value of the awards.

The estimated fair value of stock options is determined on the date of the grant using the
Black-Scholes-Merton (“Black-Scholes”) option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes model requires us
to apply highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, expected life of
the option and the risk-free interest rate. A change in one or more of the assumptions used in the
option-pricing model may result in a material change to the estimated fair value of the stock-based
compensation.

See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for
further discussion of stock-based compensation.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Our allowance for doubtful accounts is determined using estimated losses on accounts
receivable based on evaluation of the aging of the receivables, historical write-offs and the
current economic environment. Should our clients’ or vendors’ circumstances change or actual
collections of client and vendor receivables differ from our estimates, adjustments to the
provision for losses on accounts receivable and the related allowances for doubtful accounts would
be recorded. See further information on our allowance for doubtful accounts in Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets Including Purchased Intangible Assets and Goodwill

We review property, plant and equipment and purchased intangible assets for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable. If such events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment, our asset
impairment review assesses the recoverability of the assets based on the estimated undiscounted
future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset plus net proceeds expected from
disposition of the asset (if any) and compares that value to the carrying value. Such impairment
test is based on the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the
cash flows of other groups of assets and liabilities. If the carrying value exceeds the
undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between fair
value and the carrying amount. This approach uses our estimates of future market growth,
forecasted net sales and costs, expected periods the assets will be utilized and appropriate
discount rates.

 

26



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

We perform an annual review of our goodwill in the fourth quarter of every year, or more
frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, to determine if the carrying value of our
recorded goodwill is impaired. We continually assess whether any indicators of impairment exist,
which requires a significant amount of judgment. Events or circumstances that could trigger an
impairment review include a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate,
unanticipated competition, significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or
the strategy for our overall business, significant negative industry or economic trends,
significant declines in our stock price for a sustained period or significant underperformance
relative to expected historical or projected future cash flows or results of operations. Any
adverse change in these factors, among others, could have a significant effect on the
recoverability of goodwill and could have a material effect on our consolidated financial
statements.

The goodwill impairment test is performed at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an
operating segment or one level below an operating segment (referred to as a “component”). A
component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for
which discrete financial information is available and management of the segment regularly reviews
the operating results of that component. When two or more components of an operating segment have
similar economic characteristics, the components may be aggregated and deemed a single reporting
unit. An operating segment shall be deemed to be a reporting unit if all of its components are
similar, if none of its components is a reporting unit, or if the segment comprises only a single
component. Insight has three reporting units, which are equivalent to our operating segments.

The goodwill impairment test is a two step analysis. In testing for a potential impairment of
goodwill, we first compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit in which the goodwill
resides to its book value, including goodwill. Management must apply judgment in determining the
estimated fair value of our reporting units. Multiple valuation techniques can be used to assess
the fair value of the reporting unit, including the market and income approaches. All of these
techniques include the use of estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain. Changes in
these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value or goodwill
impairment, or both. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, an
appropriate control premium in excess of the market capitalization of the Company, future market
growth, forecasted sales and costs and appropriate discount rates. Due to the inherent uncertainty
involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. Management
evaluates the merits of each significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used
to determine the fair value of the reporting units. If the estimated fair value exceeds book
value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired and no additional steps are necessary. To ensure
the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, we perform a reconciliation
of our total market capitalization to the estimated fair value of all of our reporting units.

If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its book value, then we are required to
perform the second step of the impairment analysis by comparing the carrying amount of the goodwill
with its implied fair value. In step two of the analysis, we utilize the fair value of the
reporting unit computed in the first step to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to
the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. The difference between the
fair value of the reporting unit calculated in step one and the fair value of the underlying assets
and liabilities of the reporting unit is the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
Management must also apply judgment in determining the estimated fair value of these individual
assets and liabilities and may include independent valuations of certain internally generated and
unrecognized intangible assets, such as trademarks. Management also evaluates the merits of each
significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used to determine the fair values
of these individual assets and liabilities. If the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeds the
implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss would be recognized in an amount equal to
the excess.

See further information on the carrying value of goodwill in Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

 

27



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Severance and Restructuring Activities

We have taken, and may continue to take, severance and restructuring actions which require us
to utilize significant estimates of costs relating to employee termination benefits and costs to
terminate leases or remaining lease commitments on unused facilities, net of estimated subleases.
Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, adjustments to severance and restructuring
expenses in subsequent periods would be necessary. A detailed description of our severance,
restructuring and acquisition integration activities and remaining accruals for these activities at
December 31, 2011 can be found in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item
8 of this report.

Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate includes the effect of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which
no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be reinvested indefinitely
outside the U.S. Earnings remittance amounts are planned based on the projected cash flow needs as
well as the working capital and long-term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and
our domestic operations. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and long-term
investment requirements could affect our effective tax rate.

We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more
likely than not to be realized. We consider past operating results, future market growth,
forecasted earnings, historical and projected taxable income, the mix of earnings in the
jurisdictions in which we operate, prudent and feasible tax planning strategies and statutory tax
law changes in determining the need for a valuation allowance. If we were to determine that it is
more likely than not that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax
assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the
period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not
that all or part of the net deferred tax assets would be realized, then all or part of the
previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. Any change in a valuation allowance and
uncertain tax positions established in purchase accounting will likely be a benefit to, or charge
against, earnings.

We establish liabilities for potentially unfavorable outcomes associated with uncertain
tax positions taken on specific tax matters. These liabilities are based on management’s
assessment of whether a tax benefit is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by
tax authorities. There may be differences between the anticipated and actual outcomes of these
matters that may result in subsequent recognition or derecognition of a tax position based on
all the available information at the time. If material adjustments are warranted, it could
affect our effective tax rate.

Additional information about the valuation allowance and uncertain tax positions can be
found in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Contingencies

From time to time, we are subject to potential claims and assessments from third parties. We
are also subject to various governmental, client and vendor audits. We continually assess whether
or not such claims have merit and warrant accrual. An accrual is made if it is both probable that
a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Such
estimates are subject to change and may affect our results of operations and our cash flows.
Additional information about contingencies can be found in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

 

28



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth certain financial data as a percentage of net sales for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Net sales
 
 
100.0
%
 
 
100.0
%
 
 
100.0
%


Costs of goods sold
 
 
86.6
 
 
 
86.6
 
 
 
86.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Gross profit
 
 
13.4
 
 
 
13.4
 
 
 
13.7
 


Operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Selling and administrative expenses
 
 
10.5
 
 
 
10.8
 
 
 
12.1
 


Severance and restructuring expenses
 
 
0.1
 
 
 
<0.1
 
 
 
0.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations
 
 
2.8
 
 
 
2.6
 
 
 
1.3
 


Non-operating expense, net
 
 
0.1
 
 
 
0.2
 
 
 
0.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes
 
 
2.7
 
 
 
2.4
 
 
 
1.0
 


Income tax expense
 
 
0.8
 
 
 
0.8
 
 
 
0.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings from continuing operations
 
 
1.9
 
 
 
1.6
 
 
 
0.7
 


Earnings from a discontinued operation, net of taxes
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
0.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings
 
 
1.9
%
 
 
1.6
%
 
 
0.8
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Throughout this “Results of Operations” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we refer to changes in net sales, gross profit and
selling and administrative expenses in EMEA and APAC excluding the effects of foreign currency
movements. In computing these change amounts and percentages, we compare the current year amount
as translated into U.S. dollars under the applicable accounting standards to the prior year amount
in local currency translated into U.S. dollars utilizing the average translation rate for the
current year.

2011 Compared to 2010

Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 10% to $5.3 billion
compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Our net sales by operating segment for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (dollars in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
% Change
 




North America
 
$
3,672,492
 
 
$
3,340,162
 
 
 
10
%


EMEA
 
 
1,398,421
 
 
 
1,310,549
 
 
 
7
%


APAC
 
 
216,315
 
 
 
159,219
 
 
 
36
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Consolidated
 
$
5,287,228
 
 
$
4,809,930
 
 
 
10
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Net sales in North America increased $332.3 million or 10% for the year ended December 31,
2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily as a result of higher volume with the
year over year improvement in the
demand environment for IT products. Net sales of hardware, software and services increased
9%, 10% and 17%, respectively, year over year. The increase in services sales was primarily
related to a higher volume of professional services and managed services projects.

Net sales in EMEA increased $87.9 million or 7%, in U.S. dollars, for the year ended December
31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the effects of foreign currency
movements, net sales were up 2% compared to the prior year. Net sales of hardware grew 3% year
over year in U.S. dollars, but declined 1% year to year excluding the effects of foreign currency
movements. Software net sales increased 8% year over year in U.S. dollars, 3% excluding the
effects of foreign currency movements. Net sales from services increased 23% year over year in
U.S. dollars, 18% excluding the effects of foreign currency movements. The decrease in hardware
sales primarily resulted from a decrease in spending in the public sector market, while the
increases in software and services sales primarily resulted from higher volume and new client
engagements.

 

29



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Net sales in APAC increased $57.1 million or 36%, in U.S. dollars, for the year ended December
31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, 24% excluding the effects of foreign
currency movements. The increase primarily resulted from higher volume and new client engagements,
particularly with public sector clients.

Net sales by category for North America, EMEA and APAC were as follows for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
North America
 
 
EMEA
 
 
APAC
 


Sales Mix
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Hardware
 
 
64
%
 
 
64
%
 
 
31
%
 
 
33
%
 
 
1
%
 
 
<1
%


Software
 
 
30
%
 
 
30
%
 
 
67
%
 
 
66
%
 
 
96
%
 
 
97
%


Services
 
 
6
%
 
 
6
%
 
 
2
%
 
 
1
%
 
 
3
%
 
 
3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Currently, our offerings in North America, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany
include IT hardware, software and services. Our offerings in the remainder of our EMEA segment and
in APAC are almost entirely software and select software-related services.

Gross Profit. Gross profit increased 10% to $709.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, with gross margin remaining steady at 13.4%.
Our gross profit and gross profit as a percent of net sales by operating segment for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (dollars in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
% of Net
 
 
 
 
 
 
% of Net
 


 
 
2011
 
 
Sales
 
 
2010
 
 
Sales
 




North America
 
$
476,776
 
 
 
13.0
%
 
$
442,068
 
 
 
13.2
%


EMEA
 
 
198,073
 
 
 
14.2
%
 
 
176,018
 
 
 
13.4
%


APAC
 
 
34,308
 
 
 
15.9
%
 
 
28,011
 
 
 
17.6
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Consolidated
 
$
709,157
 
 
 
13.4
%
 
$
646,097
 
 
 
13.4
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




North America’s gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 8% compared to the
year ended December 31, 2010, but as a percentage of net sales, gross margin declined by
approximately 20 basis points year to year, due primarily to a decrease in margin related to agency
fees for enterprise software agreements of 19 basis points and a decrease in margin related to
sales of services of 7 basis points. Product margin, which includes vendor funding and freight,
remained relatively flat, as increases in product margin and vendor funding were almost entirely
offset by decreases in margin related to freight and a decrease in trade credits extinguished year
to year. Gross profit and margin during the year ended December 31, 2011 benefited from the
elimination of approximately $2.7 million of certain trade credit liabilities through negotiated
settlement or other legal release of the recorded liabilities during the year, compared to a
benefit of approximately $7.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2010.

EMEA’s gross profit increased 13% in U.S. dollars for the year ended December 31, 2011
compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the effects of foreign currency movements,
gross profit was up 7% compared to the prior year. As a percentage of net sales, gross margin
increased by approximately 80 basis points year over year due primarily to an increase in product
margin, which includes vendor funding and freight, of 34 basis points, an increase in
margin contributed by agency fees for enterprise software agreements of 21 basis points and an
increase in margin contributed by services sales of 17 basis points.

APAC’s gross profit increased 22% in U.S. dollars for the year ended December 31, 2011
compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the effects of foreign currency movements,
gross profit increased 12% compared to the prior year. As a percentage of net sales, gross margin
declined by approximately 170 basis points, due primarily to the effect of an increase in the mix
of public sector business, which is typically transacted at lower margins, as well as the prior
year benefits resulting from the release of a sales tax reserve of approximately $480,000 upon
settlement with the local taxing authorities in the first quarter of 2010.

 

30



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Operating Expenses.

Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased $37.6
million or 7% in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010.
Selling and administrative expenses decreased 30 basis points as a percentage of net sales for the
year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 as we continued our focus
on productivity initiatives and cost control. Selling and administrative expenses as a percent of
net sales by operating segment for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows
(dollars in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
% of Net
 
 
 
 
 
 
% of Net
 


 
 
2011
 
 
Sales
 
 
2010
 
 
Sales
 




North America
 
$
366,811
 
 
 
10.0
%
 
$
348,842
 
 
 
10.4
%


EMEA
 
 
165,262
 
 
 
11.8
%
 
 
149,945
 
 
 
11.4
%


APAC
 
 
24,616
 
 
 
11.4
%
 
 
20,278
 
 
 
12.7
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Consolidated
 
$
556,689
 
 
 
10.5
%
 
$
519,065
 
 
 
10.8
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




North America’s selling and administrative expenses increased 5%, or $18.0 million, for the
year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, but as a percentage of
net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased 40 basis points to 10.0% of net sales for
the year ended December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2011, as expected, we
incurred incremental selling and administrative expenses associated with the North America IT
systems integration project. In addition, we incurred a non-cash charge of approximately $1.4
million during the year when we wrote off certain computer software development costs that will not
be placed into service as a result of the North America IT systems integration project. Salaries
and benefits increased $8.3 million due to investments in headcount, and variable sales incentive
compensation increased $5.6 million on increased gross profit in the year ended December 31, 2011.
Additionally, legal and professional fees increased $1.8 million due primarily to higher fees
associated with responding to the subpoena received by our Calence subsidiary for documents and
information related to its participation in the E-Rate program. For a discussion of legal
proceedings, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
report. The year over year comparison was also affected by the prior year’s selling and
administrative expenses being reduced by $2.9 million upon the collection of a single account
receivable which we had previously specifically reserved as doubtful. These increases in selling
and administrative expenses were offset partially by decreases in marketing and facility related
expenses of $1.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively, resulting from cost-control initiatives.

EMEA’s selling and administrative expenses increased 10%, or $15.3 million in U.S. dollars,
for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the
effects of foreign currency movements, selling and administrative expenses increased 6% compared to
the prior year. The year over year increase in selling and administrative expenses is primarily
attributable to increases in salaries and benefits due to investments in headcount and related
benefits and increases in variable sales incentive compensation on increased gross profit.
Additionally, we incurred incremental selling and administrative expenses associated with
investments in our IT systems in EMEA during the year. As a percentage of net sales, selling and
administrative expenses increased 40 basis points year over year due to investments in fixed
personnel costs year over year while sales have increased at a slower rate in 2011.

APAC’s selling and administrative expenses increased 21%, or $4.3 million in U.S. dollars, for
the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the
effects of foreign currency movements, selling and administrative expenses increased 10% compared
to the prior year. The year over year increase in selling and administrative expenses is primarily
attributable to increases in salaries and benefits due to investments in headcount and increases in
variable sales incentive compensation on increased gross profit.

Severance and Restructuring Expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2011, North America
and EMEA recorded severance expense of $2.4 million and $2.7 million, respectively, related to
restructuring activities. These charges were associated with the severance costs for the
elimination of certain positions based on a re-alignment of roles and responsibilities. During the
year ended December 31, 2010, North America and EMEA recorded severance expense of $2.0 million and
$1.0 million, respectively. The North America charge was part of the roll-out of our new sales
engagement model and plans to add new leadership in key areas, and the EMEA charge was associated
with the severance costs for the elimination of certain positions based on a re-alignment of roles
and responsibilities. In EMEA, $1.5 million in new severance costs was offset by $523,000 of
adjustments to prior severance accruals due to changes in estimates during 2010. See Note 9 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further discussion of
severance and restructuring activities.


 

31



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Non-Operating (Income) Expense.

Interest Income. Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was generated
through short-term investments. The increase in interest income year over year is primarily due to
increases in average cash balances outstanding.

Interest Expense. Interest expense primarily relates to borrowings under our financing
facilities and capital lease obligation and imputed interest under our inventory financing
facility. Interest expense declined 10% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year
ended December 30, 2010 due primarily to lower average borrowing rates year to year and a change in
estimate in the prior year described below. Imputed interest under our inventory financing
facility was $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $2.1 million for the
year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease was due to decreased weighted average interest rates,
partially offset by higher average balances outstanding under the facility. During the year ended
December 31, 2010, we reduced interest expense by $553,000 for a change in estimate of accrued
interest related to two state unclaimed property settlements.

Net Foreign Currency Exchange Gains/Losses. These gains/losses result from foreign currency
transactions, including gains/losses on foreign currency derivative contracts and intercompany
balances that are not considered long-term in nature. The change in net foreign currency exchange
gains/losses is due primarily to the underlying changes in the applicable exchange rates, as
mitigated by our use of foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain non-functional currency
assets and liabilities against changes in exchange rate movements. The change from a net foreign
currency exchange loss in the prior year to a gain in the current year was driven by our EMEA
segment.

Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net, consists primarily of bank fees associated with our
cash management activities.

Income Tax Expense. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations for the year ended
December 31, 2011 was 29.3% compared to 34.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The effective
tax rate in 2011 was less than the federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to the
reorganization of certain of our foreign operations during the fourth quarter that resulted in the
recognition of foreign tax credits. The effective tax rate in 2010 was less than the federal
statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the recapitalization of a foreign subsidiary. See Note 10
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further discussion
of income tax expense.

2010 Compared to 2009

Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 16% to $4.8 billion
compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Our net sales by operating segment for the years
ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
% Change
 




North America
 
$
3,340,162
 
 
$
2,840,786
 
 
 
18
%


EMEA
 
 
1,310,549
 
 
 
1,151,749
 
 
 
14
%


APAC
 
 
159,219
 
 
 
144,370
 
 
 
10
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Consolidated
 
$
4,809,930
 
 
$
4,136,905
 
 
 
16
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Net sales in North America increased $499.4 million or 18% for the year ended December 31,
2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Net sales of hardware and software increased
26% and 9%, respectively, year over year, while net sales in the services category declined 11%
year to year. The increase in hardware and software net sales is primarily due to higher volume
with the year over year improvement in the demand environment for IT products compared to the
depressed levels of IT spending experienced in North America in 2009. The decrease in sales of
services year to year resulted primarily from a large services engagement in 2009 that did not
recur in 2010.

 

32



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Net sales in EMEA increased $158.8 million or 14%, in U.S. dollars, for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effects of foreign
currency movements, net sales in 2010 were up 18% compared to 2009. Net sales of hardware grew 10%
year over year in U.S. dollars, 12% excluding the
effects of foreign currency movements, due to
higher demand across all client groups. Software net sales increased 15% year over year in U.S.
dollars, 21% excluding the effects of foreign currency movements, due primarily to higher volume
and new client engagements and new product offerings from our publishers, reflecting the year over
year improvement in the global IT demand environment compared to the depressed levels of IT
spending experienced in EMEA in 2009. Net sales from services increased 36% year over year in U.S.
dollars, 40% excluding the effects of foreign currency movements, due primarily to new client
engagements.

Our APAC segment recognized net sales of $159.2 million in U.S. dollars for the year ended
December 31, 2010, an increase of $14.8 million or 10%, compared to the year ended December 31,
2009. Net sales were flat year to year excluding the effects of foreign currency movements.

Net sales by category for North America, EMEA and APAC were as follows for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
North America
 
 
EMEA
 
 
APAC
 


Sales Mix
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Hardware
 
 
64
%
 
 
60
%
 
 
33
%
 
 
34
%
 
 
<1
%
 
 
1
%


Software
 
 
30
%
 
 
32
%
 
 
66
%
 
 
65
%
 
 
97
%
 
 
98
%


Services
 
 
6
%
 
 
8
%
 
 
1
%
 
 
1
%
 
 
3
%
 
 
1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Gross Profit. Gross profit increased 14% to $646.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, with a 30 basis point decrease in gross margin.
Our gross profit and gross profit as a percent of net sales by operating segment for the years
ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
% of Net
 
 
 
 
 
 
% of Net
 


 
 
2010
 
 
Sales
 
 
2009
 
 
Sales
 




North America
 
$
442,068
 
 
 
13.2
%
 
$
389,717
 
 
 
13.7
%


EMEA
 
 
176,018
 
 
 
13.4
%
 
 
159,109
 
 
 
13.8
%


APAC
 
 
28,011
 
 
 
17.6
%
 
 
19,788
 
 
 
13.7
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Consolidated
 
$
646,097
 
 
 
13.4
%
 
$
568,614
 
 
 
13.7
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




North America’s gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 13% compared to
the year ended December 31, 2009, but as a percentage of net sales, gross margin declined by 50
basis points year to year, due primarily to a 78 basis point decrease in margin from the sale of
services associated with the large services engagement during 2009 that did not recur in 2010 and a
decrease in margin related to agency fees for enterprise software agreements of 32 basis points.
These decreases in margin were offset by a 56 basis point increase in product margin, which
includes vendor funding and freight, driven primarily by sales in our hardware category.
Contributing to this increase in product margin was the extinguishment of $7.4 million of certain
restatement-related trade credits during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $3.5 million
in 2009, through negotiated settlement or other legal release of the recorded liabilities, which
contributed 10 basis points to the increase in margin.

EMEA’s gross profit increased 11% in U.S. dollars for the year ended December 31, 2010
compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effects of foreign currency movements,
gross profit was up 15% compared to 2009. As a percentage of net sales, gross margin declined 40
basis points due primarily to decreases in agency fees for enterprise software agreement renewals
of 44 basis points.

APAC’s gross profit increased 42% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year
ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effects of foreign currency movements, gross profit
increased 28% compared to 2009. As a percentage of net sales, gross margin increased by 390 basis
points, due primarily to an increase of 213 basis points in product margin, which includes vendor
funding, an increase in the margin contribution from agency fees for enterprise software agreements
of 149 basis points and an increase in margin from sales of services of 26 basis points. These
increases resulted primarily from changes in client and publisher mix.

 

33



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Operating Expenses.

Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased $17.0
million or 3% in the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009
primarily attributable to increases in variable compensation on increased sales. Selling and
administrative expenses decreased 130 basis points as a percentage of net sales for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 as we continued our expense
management initiatives. Selling and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales by operating
segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
% of Net
 
 
 
 
 
 
% of Net
 


 
 
2010
 
 
Sales
 
 
2009
 
 
Sales
 




North America
 
$
348,842
 
 
 
10.4
%
 
$
346,306
 
 
 
12.2
%


EMEA
 
 
149,945
 
 
 
11.4
%
 
 
140,380
 
 
 
12.2
%


APAC
 
 
20,278
 
 
 
12.7
%
 
 
15,416
 
 
 
10.7
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Consolidated
 
$
519,065
 
 
 
10.8
%
 
$
502,102
 
 
 
12.1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




North America’s selling and administrative expenses increased 1%, or $2.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, but as a percentage of net
sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased 180 basis points to 10.4% of net sales for the
year. Increases in variable costs of $11.2 million on higher sales in the year ended December 31,
2010 and increased bonus and non-cash stock-based compensation expense resulting from
over-attainment against our operating plan were mostly offset by (i) a $5.5 million decline in
legal and professional fees year to year, primarily related to professional fees and costs
associated with the trade credits restatement as well as a decrease in our annual audit fee and
(ii) a $4.1 million decrease resulting from the effect on the year to year comparison of the 2009
non-cash stock-based compensation charges. These charges related to the North America portion of
the termination of an equity-based incentive compensation plan relating to certain of our executive
officers in February 2009 that did not recur in 2010. Further, selling and administrative expenses
in the year ended December 31, 2010 were reduced by $2.9 million upon the collection of a single
account receivable which we had specifically reserved as doubtful during the fourth quarter of
2009.

EMEA’s selling and administrative expenses increased 7%, or $9.6 million in U.S. dollars, for
the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the
effects of foreign currency movements, selling and administrative expenses increased 11% compared
to the prior year. This year over year increase was primarily driven by higher variable
compensation and sales incentives on increased net sales. As a percentage of net sales, selling
and administrative expenses decreased 80 basis points due to relatively stable fixed personnel
costs year to year while sales have increased in 2010. Selling and administrative expenses for the
year ended December 31, 2009 included $1.4 million of non-cash stock-based compensation charges
related to the EMEA portion of the termination of an equity-based incentive compensation plan in
the first quarter of 2009 that did not recur in 2010 as discussed above.

APAC’s selling and administrative expenses increased 32% or $4.9 million in U.S. dollars, for
the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the
effects of foreign currency movements, selling and administrative expenses increased 16% compared
to 2009. The year over year increases in selling and administrative expenses are primarily
attributable to increases in fixed compensation with increases in head count year over year and
increases in variable compensation on higher sales in the year ended December 31, 2010.

Severance and Restructuring Expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2010, North America
and EMEA recorded severance expense of $2.0 million and $1.0 million, respectively. The North
America charge was part of the roll-out of our new sales engagement model and plans to add new
leadership in key areas, and the EMEA charge was associated with the severance for the elimination
of certain positions based on a re-alignment of roles and responsibilities. In EMEA, $1.5 million
in new severance costs in 2010 was offset by $523,000 of adjustments to prior severance accruals
due to changes in estimates during 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, North America,
EMEA and APAC recorded severance expense of $10.3 million, $3.0 million and $302,000, respectively,
related to the
departure of Insight’s former President and Chief Executive Officer and ongoing restructuring
efforts to reduce operating expenses. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
II, Item 8 of this report for further discussion of severance and restructuring activities.

 

34



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Non-Operating (Income) Expense.

Interest Income. Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was generated
through short-term investments. The increase in interest income year over year is primarily due to
higher average cash and cash equivalent balances in 2010.

Interest Expense. Interest expense primarily relates to borrowings under our financing
facilities and capital lease obligation and imputed interest under our inventory financing
facility. In 2009, we also accrued $2.0 million for interest expense related to our anticipated
unclaimed property settlement under two state programs in 2010. In 2010, we reduced interest
expense by $553,000 for a change in estimate of accrued interest upon settlement with these two
states. Imputed interest under our inventory financing facility was $2.1 million and $1.8 million
for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. After giving effect to these items,
the remaining decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the
year ended December 31, 2009 is due primarily to decreases in the weighted average borrowings
outstanding as we have used excess cash to pay down debt.

Net Foreign Currency Exchange Gains/Losses. These gains/losses result from foreign currency
transactions, including the period-end remeasurement of intercompany balances that are not
considered long-term in nature. The change from a net foreign currency exchange gain in the prior
year to a loss in the current year is due primarily to more volatility in the applicable exchange
rates, particularly in our APAC segment.

Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net, consists primarily of bank fees associated with our
cash management activities.

Income Tax Expense. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations for the year ended
December 31, 2010 was 34.5% compared to 26.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The effective
tax rates in both years were less than the federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to the
recapitalization of a foreign subsidiary during the fourth quarter of each year. Further, our 2009
effective tax rate was also reduced by the true-up of certain foreign deferred tax assets. See
Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further
discussion of income tax expense.

Earnings from a Discontinued Operation. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded
earnings from a discontinued operation of $4.5 million, $2.8 million net of tax, as a result of the
favorable settlement on July 7, 2009 of an arbitrated claim related to the 2006 sale of a former
subsidiary. The amount recognized was net of payments to holders of approximately 2.0 million
exercised stock options of the former subsidiary and a broker success fee with respect to the
settlement totaling $540,000. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II,
Item 8 of this report for further discussion.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following table sets forth for the periods presented certain consolidated cash flow
information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Net cash provided by operating activities
 
$
115,725
 
 
$
98,181
 
 
$
122,674
 


Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(40,862
)
 
 
(23,095
)
 
 
(36,420
)


Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(68,027
)
 
 
(17,894
)
 
 
(70,269
)


Foreign currency exchange effect on cash flow
 
 
(2,263
)
 
 
(1,495
)
 
 
2,906
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
4,573
 
 
 
55,697
 
 
 
18,891
 


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
123,763
 
 
 
68,066
 
 
 
49,175
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
128,336
 
 
$
123,763
 
 
$
68,066
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Cash and Cash Flow

Our primary uses of cash during 2011 were to fund working capital requirements, including
repayments under our inventory financing facility, to repurchase shares of our common stock and to
fund capital expenditures and the acquisition of Ensynch during the fourth quarter of 2011.
Operating activities provided $115.7 million in cash for the

year ended December 31, 2011, 
 

35



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

an 18%
increase from the year ended December 31, 2010. The 2010 amount included cash payments of $25.8
million as part of our previously announced program of compliance with state unclaimed property
laws. We had net borrowings on our long-term debt under our revolving credit facility of $25.0
million, made net repayments under our inventory financing facility of $41.2 million and funded
$50.0 million of repurchases of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2011. Capital
expenditures were $27.1 million, a 51% increase over 2010, primarily related to investments in our
IT systems, and we acquired Ensynch for $13.8 million, net of cash acquired. Cash flows for 2011
and 2010 were negatively affected by $2.3 million and $1.5 million, respectively, as a result of
foreign currency exchange rates.

Net cash provided by operating activities. Cash flows from operating activities for the year
ended December 31, 2011 reflect our net earnings, adjusted for non-cash items such as depreciation,
amortization, stock-based compensation expense and write-offs and write-downs of assets, as well as
changes in accounts receivable, other current assets, other assets, accounts payable and deferred
revenue. The increases in accounts receivable and accounts payable reflect increased sales and
associated costs of goods sold, respectively, in 2011 compared to the prior year. The decreases in
other current assets and deferred revenue in 2011 were primarily due to a large project for which
we deferred revenue recognition and the related costs as of December 31, 2010 until we received
client acceptance of the work performed during 2011. The increase in other assets in 2011 was
primarily due to an increase in multi-year contracts resulting in increased long-term accounts
receivable and deferred costs compared to the prior year.

Cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflect our net
earnings, adjusted for non-cash items such as depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation
expense, deferred income taxes and write-downs of inventories. Also contributing to the cash flows
from operating activities in 2010 were increases in accounts payable and deferred revenue. The
increase in accounts payable reflects increased costs of goods sold associated with the increase in
net sales in 2010 compared to 2009. These increases in operating cash flows were partially offset
by increases in accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets and decreases in accrued
expenses and other liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable in 2010 also reflects
increased net sales compared to 2009. The increase in inventories in 2010 was primarily
attributable to client specific inventory purchased in North America late in 2010 as a result of
new client engagements and overall higher demand for hardware. The decrease in accrued expenses
and other liabilities in 2010 was primarily due to payments made to settle certain state unclaimed
property liabilities and to reduce income taxes payable.

Cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflect our net
earnings, adjusted for depreciation, amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation expense,
write-downs of inventories, the provision for losses on accounts receivable, the non-cash gain from
the Direct Alliance arbitrated claim and deferred income taxes. Also contributing to the cash
flows from operating activities in 2009 were increases in deferred revenue and decreases in
accounts receivable. The decrease in accounts receivable in 2009 reflects the decrease in net
sales compared to 2008 as well as our focus on cash management. These increases in operating cash
flows in 2009 were partially offset by decreases in accounts payable in the normal course of
business.

Our consolidated cash flow operating metrics as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as
follows:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009




Days sales outstanding in ending accounts receivable (“DSOs”) (a)
 
82
 
78
 
78


Days inventory outstanding (excluding inventories not available for sale) (b) 
 
9
 
9
 
8


Days purchases outstanding in ending accounts payable (“DPOs”) (c)
 
(69)
 
(69)
 
(63)


 
 
 
 


Cash conversion cycle (days) (d)
 
22
 
18
 
23


 
 
 
 












(a)
 
Calculated as the balance of accounts receivable, net at the end of the period divided by
daily net sales. Daily net sales is calculated as net sales for the quarter divided by 92
days.

 

(b)
 
Calculated as average inventories divided by daily costs of goods sold. Average inventories
is calculated as the sum of the balances of inventories at the beginning of the period plus
inventories at the end of the period divided by two. Daily costs of goods sold is calculated
as costs of goods sold for the quarter divided by 92 days.

 

(c)
 
Calculated as the balances of accounts payable, which includes the inventory financing
facility, at the end of the period divided by daily costs of goods sold. Daily costs of goods
sold is calculated as costs of goods sold for the quarter divided by 92 days.

 

(d)
 
Calculated as DSOs plus days inventory outstanding, less DPOs.



 

36



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Our cash conversion cycle was 22 days in the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011, up four
days from the fourth quarter of 2010 due to increases in DSO period to period, primarily in our
foreign operations, and due to a higher mix of transactions booked late in the 2011 fourth quarter.

Our cash conversion cycle was 18 days in the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2010,
decreasing five days from 23 days in the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009. These results
were primarily due to the expanded use of our inventory financing facility, which contributed to an
increase in DPOs during the fourth quarter of 2010 of six days, partially offset by an increase in
days inventory outstanding resulting from increased investment in inventory to support specific
client engagements.

We expect that cash flow from operations will be used, at least partially, to fund working
capital as we typically pay our partners on average terms that are shorter than the average terms
granted to our clients in order to take advantage of supplier discounts. We intend to use cash
generated in 2012 in excess of working capital needs to pay down our outstanding debt balances and
support our capital expenditures for the year. We also intend to use cash to fund potential small
acquisitions to add select capabilities.

Net cash used in investing activities. Capital expenditures of $27.1 million, $18.0 million
and $14.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily
related to investments to upgrade our IT systems. We expect total capital expenditures in 2012 to
be between $20.0 million and $25.0 million, primarily for the integration of our IT systems in
North America onto a single platform by the end of 2012, continuation of the IT systems upgrade in
additional countries in our EMEA operations and other facility and technology related maintenance
and upgrade projects.

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we acquired Ensynch for $13.8 million, net of cash
acquired. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we made payments totaling $5.1
million and $21.7 million, respectively, to the former owners of Calence for additional purchase
price consideration and the related accrued interest thereon as a result of Calence achieving
certain performance targets during 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities. During the year ended December 31, 2011,
we had net borrowings under our revolving credit facility of $25.0 million and made net repayments
under our inventory financing facility, which is included in accounts payable, of $41.2 million.
In 2011, we also funded $50.0 million of repurchases of our common stock. During the year ended
December 31, 2010, we made net repayments on our debt facilities that reduced our outstanding debt
balances under our revolving credit facility by $57.0 million and had net borrowings under our
inventory financing facility of $40.8 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we made
net repayments on our debt facilities that reduced our outstanding debt balances under our
revolving credit facility by $81.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we had net
borrowings under our inventory financing facility of $13.4 million.

As of December 31, 2011, our long-term debt balance consisted of $115.0 million outstanding
under our $300.0 million senior revolving credit facility and a $1.6 million capital lease
obligation for certain IT equipment. As of December 31, 2011, the current portion of our long-term
debt relates solely to our capital lease obligation. Our objective is to pay our debt balances
down while retaining adequate cash balances to meet overall business objectives.

Our consolidated debt balance that can be outstanding at the end of any fiscal quarter under
our senior revolving credit facility and our ABS facility is limited by certain financial
covenants, particularly a maximum leverage ratio. The maximum leverage ratio is calculated as
aggregate debt outstanding divided by the sum of the Company’s trailing 12-month net earnings
plus (i) interest expense, excluding non-cash imputed interest on our inventory financing facility,
(ii) income tax expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization and (iv) non-cash stock-based
compensation (referred to herein as “adjusted earnings”). The maximum leverage ratio permitted
under the agreements is 2.50 times as of December 31, 2011. A significant drop in the Company’s
adjusted earnings would limit the amount of indebtedness that could be outstanding at the end of
any fiscal quarter, to a level that could be below the Company’s consolidated maximum debt
capacity. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s total debt balance that could have been
outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility and our ABS facility was equal to the
maximum available under the facilities of $450.0 million.

We anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with the funds available under our
financing facilities, will be adequate to support our presently anticipated cash and working
capital requirements for operations over the next 12 months.

 

37



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. income taxation
upon repatriation to the U.S. For foreign entities not treated as branches for U.S. tax purposes,
we do not provide for U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries as
earnings are reinvested and, in the opinion of management, will continue to be reinvested
indefinitely outside of the U.S. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $113.9 million in
cash and cash equivalents in certain of our foreign subsidiaries where we consider undistributed
earnings for these foreign subsidiaries to be permanently reinvested. We used our excess cash
balances in the U.S. to pay down debt as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the
majority of our foreign cash resides in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Australia. Certain
of these cash balances could and will be remitted to the U.S. by paying down intercompany payables
generated in the ordinary course of business. This repayment would not change our policy to
indefinitely reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries that are deemed to be indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. were approximately
$43.1 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $28.6 million at the end of 2010. We intend to use
undistributed earnings for general business purposes in the foreign jurisdictions as well as to
fund our EMEA IT systems, potential small acquisitions, various facility upgrades and the expansion of our sales of hardware and
services, in addition to software, to clients in EMEA countries.

On May 26, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up
to $50.0 million of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased
approximately 2.9 million shares of our common stock on the open market at an average price of
$17.26 per share, which represented the full amount authorized under the repurchase program. All
shares repurchased were retired.

See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for a
description of our financing facilities, including terms and covenants, amounts outstanding,
amounts available and weighted average borrowings and interest rates during the year.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have entered into off-balance sheet arrangements, which include guaranties and
indemnifications. The guaranties and indemnifications are discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. We believe that none of our off-balance
sheet arrangements have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on
our financial condition, sales or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures
or capital resources.

 

38



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

Contractual Obligations

At December 31, 2011, our contractual obligations for continuing operations were as follows
(in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Payments due by period
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Less than
 
 
1-3
 
 
3-5
 
 
More than 5
 


 
 
Total
 
 
1 Year
 
 
Years
 
 
Years
 
 
Years
 




Long-term debt (a)
 
$
115,000
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
115,000
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 


Capital lease obligations
 
 
1,645
 
 
 
1,039
 
 
 
606
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


Inventory financing facility (b)
 
 
93,933
 
 
 
93,933
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


Operating lease obligations
 
 
59,279
 
 
 
13,501
 
 
 
21,963
 
 
 
13,473
 
 
 
10,342
 


Severance and restructuring obligations (c)
 
 
2,114
 
 
 
2,114
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


Other contractual obligations (d)
 
 
13,894
 
 
 
5,094
 
 
 
3,615
 
 
 
2,816
 
 
 
2,369
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total
 
$
285,865
 
 
$
115,681
 
 
$
141,184
 
 
$
16,289
 
 
$
12,711
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 












(a)
 
Reflects the $115.0 million outstanding at December 31, 2011 under our senior revolving
credit facility as due in April 2013, the date at which the facility matures. See further
discussion in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
report.

 

(b)
 
See further discussion in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II,
Item 8 of this report. As of December 31, 2011, this amount was included in accounts
payable related to this facility and has been included in our contractual obligations table
above as being due within the 30- to 60-day stated vendor terms.

 

(c)
 
As a result of approved severance and restructuring plans, we expect future cash
expenditures related to employee termination benefits and facilities based costs. See
further discussion in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of
this report.

 

(d)
 
The table above includes:






 
I.
 
Estimated interest payments of $2.0 million in 2012 and $489,000 in the
first three months of 2013, based on the current debt balance of $115.0 million at
December 31, 2011 under the senior revolving credit facility, multiplied by the
weighted average interest rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 of 1.7% per
annum.






 
II.
 
Amounts totaling $2.9 million over the next two years for advertising
and marketing events with the Arizona Cardinals at the University of Phoenix
Stadium. See further discussion in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.






 
III.
 
We estimate that we will owe $8.5 million in future years in connection
with the obligations to perform asset-retirement activities that are conditional on
a future event.



The table above excludes $5.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits as we are unable to
reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement. See further discussion in Note 10
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Although we set purchase targets with our partners tied to the amount of supplier
reimbursements we receive, we have no material contractual purchase obligations.

Acquisitions

Our strategy includes the possible acquisition of or investments in other businesses to expand
or complement our operations or to add select services capabilities. The magnitude, timing and
nature of any future acquisitions or investments will depend on a number of factors, including the
availability of suitable candidates, the negotiation of acceptable terms, our financial
capabilities and general economic and business conditions. Financing for future transactions would
result in the utilization of cash, incurrence of additional debt, issuance of stock or some
combination of the three.

Inflation

We have historically not been adversely affected by inflation, as technological advances and
competition within the IT industry have generally caused the prices of the products we sell to
decline and product life cycles tend to be short. This requires our growth in unit sales to exceed
the decline in prices in order to increase our net sales. We believe that most price increases
could be passed on to our clients, as prices charged by us are not set by long-term contracts;
however, as a result of competitive pressure, there can be no assurance that the full effect of any
such price increases could be passed on to our clients.

 

39



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

The information contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II,
Item 8 of this report concerning a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including our
expected dates of adoption and the estimated effects on our results of operations and financial
condition, is incorporated by reference herein.












Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



The information contained in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II,
Item 8 of this report concerning a description of market risk management, including interest rate
risk and foreign currency exchange risk, is incorporated by reference herein.

 

40



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS












Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data







 
 
 


 
 
Page




Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
42


Consolidated Balance Sheets — December 31, 2011 and 2010 
 
44


Consolidated Statements of Operations — For each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2011 
 
45


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income
— For each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 
 
46


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — For each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 
 
47


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
48




 

41



Table of Contents




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Insight Enterprises, Inc.:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Insight Enterprises, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011. These consolidated financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Insight Enterprises, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), Insight Enterprises, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated
February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting.

/s/ KPMG LLP


Phoenix, Arizona
February 23, 2012


 

42



Table of Contents

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Insight Enterprises, Inc.:


We have audited Insight Enterprises, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Insight
Enterprises, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Item 9A (a), Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on Insight Enterprises, Inc.’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Insight Enterprises, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by COSO.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Insight Enterprises, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an
unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.

/s/ KPMG LLP


Phoenix, Arizona
February 23, 2012


 

43



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands, except per share data)





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 




ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Current assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
128,336
 
 
$
123,763
 


Accounts receivable, net
 
 
1,208,276
 
 
 
1,135,951
 


Inventories
 
 
114,763
 
 
 
106,734
 


Inventories not available for sale
 
 
43,816
 
 
 
50,677
 


Deferred income taxes
 
 
17,344
 
 
 
23,283
 


Other current assets
 
 
23,144
 
 
 
49,289
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total current assets
 
 
1,535,679
 
 
 
1,489,697
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Property and equipment, net
 
 
140,705
 
 
 
141,399
 


Goodwill
 
 
26,257
 
 
 
16,474
 


Intangible assets, net
 
 
59,021
 
 
 
69,081
 


Deferred income taxes
 
 
70,771
 
 
 
73,796
 


Other assets
 
 
25,178
 
 
 
12,836
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,857,611
 
 
$
1,803,283
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Current liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Accounts payable
 
$
882,384
 
 
$
881,688
 


Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
 
 
178,749
 
 
 
187,457
 


Current portion of long-term debt
 
 
1,017
 
 
 
997
 


Deferred revenue
 
 
47,012
 
 
 
67,373
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total current liabilities
 
 
1,109,162
 
 
 
1,137,515
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Long-term debt
 
 
115,602
 
 
 
91,619
 


Deferred income taxes
 
 
1,186
 
 
 
5,011
 


Other liabilities
 
 
34,829
 
 
 
24,167
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
1,260,779
 
 
 
1,258,312
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Commitments and contingencies
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Stockholders’ equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 3,000 shares authorized; no shares issued
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


Common stock, $0.01 par value, 100,000 shares authorized; 43,919 and 46,325
shares issued and outstanding in 2011 and 2010, respectively
 
 
439
 
 
 
463
 


Additional paid-in capital
 
 
360,370
 
 
 
377,277
 


Retained earnings
 
 
223,125
 
 
 
149,349
 


Accumulated other comprehensive income — foreign currency translation
adjustments
 
 
12,898
 
 
 
17,882
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total stockholders’ equity
 
 
596,832
 
 
 
544,971
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,857,611
 
 
$
1,803,283
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


 

44



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in thousands, except per share data)





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Net sales
 
$
5,287,228
 
 
$
4,809,930
 
 
$
4,136,905
 


Costs of goods sold
 
 
4,578,071
 
 
 
4,163,833
 
 
 
3,568,291
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Gross profit
 
 
709,157
 
 
 
646,097
 
 
 
568,614
 


Operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Selling and administrative expenses
 
 
556,689
 
 
 
519,065
 
 
 
502,102
 


Severance and restructuring expenses
 
 
5,085
 
 
 
2,956
 
 
 
13,608
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations
 
 
147,383
 
 
 
124,076
 
 
 
52,904
 


Non-operating (income) expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Interest income
 
 
(1,686
)
 
 
(714
)
 
 
(424
)


Interest expense
 
 
6,927
 
 
 
7,677
 
 
 
10,790
 


Net foreign currency exchange (gain) loss
 
 
(1,136
)
 
 
522
 
 
 
(328
)


Other expense, net
 
 
1,589
 
 
 
1,417
 
 
 
1,123
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes
 
 
141,689
 
 
 
115,174
 
 
 
41,743
 


Income tax expense
 
 
41,454
 
 
 
39,689
 
 
 
10,970
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings from continuing operations
 
 
100,235
 
 
 
75,485
 
 
 
30,773
 


Earnings from a discontinued operation, net of taxes of $1,659
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
2,801
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings
 
$
100,235
 
 
$
75,485
 
 
$
33,574
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings per share — Basic:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings from continuing operations
 
$
2.20
 
 
$
1.63
 
 
$
0.67
 


Net earnings from a discontinued operation
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
0.06
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings per share
 
$
2.20
 
 
$
1.63
 
 
$
0.73
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings per share — Diluted:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings from continuing operations
 
$
2.18
 
 
$
1.61
 
 
$
0.67
 


Net earnings from a discontinued operation
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
0.06
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings per share
 
$
2.18
 
 
$
1.61
 
 
$
0.73
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Shares used in per share calculations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Basic
 
 
45,474
 
 
 
46,218
 
 
 
45,838
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Diluted
 
 
46,021
 
 
 
46,812
 
 
 
46,271
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


 

45



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(in thousands)





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional
 
 
Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total
 


 
 
Common Stock
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
Paid-in
 
 
Comprehensive
 
 
Retained
 
 
Stockholders’
 


 
 
Shares
 
 
Par Value
 
 
Shares
 
 
Par Value
 
 
Capital
 
 
Income
 
 
Earnings
 
 
Equity
 




Balances at December 31, 2008
 
 
45,595
 
 
$
456
 
 
 
—
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
371,664
 
 
$
9,558
 
 
$
40,290
 
 
$
421,968
 


Issuance of common stock under
employee stock plans, net
of shares withheld for
payroll taxes
 
 
361
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(695
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(691
)


Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
7,764
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
7,764
 


Tax shortfall from stock-based
compensation
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(6,712
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(6,712
)


Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Foreign currency
translation adjustment,
net of tax
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
11,671
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
11,671
 


Net earnings
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
33,574
 
 
 
33,574
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45,245
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Balances at December 31, 2009
 
 
45,956
 
 
 
460
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
372,021
 
 
 
21,229
 
 
 
73,864
 
 
 
467,574
 


Issuance of common stock under
employee stock plans, net
of shares withheld for
payroll taxes
 
 
369
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(1,384
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(1,381
)


Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
6,957
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
6,957
 


Tax shortfall from stock-based
compensation
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(317
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(317
)


Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Foreign currency
translation adjustment,
net of tax
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(3,347
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
(3,347
)


Net earnings
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
75,485
 
 
 
75,485
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72,138
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Balances at December 31, 2010
 
 
46,325
 
 
 
463
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
377,277
 
 
 
17,882
 
 
 
149,349
 
 
 
544,971
 


Issuance of common stock under
employee stock plans, net
of shares withheld for
payroll taxes
 
 
491
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(2,665
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(2,660
)


Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
7,919
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
7,919
 


Tax benefit from stock-based
compensation
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
1,351
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
1,351
 


Repurchase of treasury stock
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(2,897
)
 
 
(50,000
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(50,000
)


Retirement of treasury stock
 
 
(2,897
)
 
 
(29
)
 
 
2,897
 
 
 
50,000
 
 
 
(23,512
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
(26,459
)
 
 
—
 


Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Foreign currency translation
adjustment, net of tax
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(4,984
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
(4,984
)


Net earnings
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
100,235
 
 
 
100,235
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95,251
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Balances at December 31, 2011
 
 
43,919
 
 
$
439
 
 
 
—
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
360,370
 
 
$
12,898
 
 
$
223,125
 
 
$
596,832
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


 

46



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands)





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Cash flows from operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings from continuing operations
 
$
100,235
 
 
$
75,485
 
 
$
30,773
 


Plus: net earnings from a discontinued operation
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
2,801
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings
 
 
100,235
 
 
 
75,485
 
 
 
33,574
 


Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by
operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Depreciation and amortization
 
 
39,139
 
 
 
38,013
 
 
 
41,163
 


Provision for losses on accounts receivable
 
 
4,267
 
 
 
1,626
 
 
 
7,377
 


Write-downs of inventories
 
 
6,830
 
 
 
6,825
 
 
 
7,444
 


Write-off of computer software development costs
 
 
1,390
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


Non-cash stock-based compensation
 
 
7,919
 
 
 
6,957
 
 
 
7,764
 


Non-cash gain from arbitrated claim, net of tax
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(2,801
)


Excess tax benefit from employee gains on stock-based
compensation
 
 
(1,809
)
 
 
(1,073
)
 
 
—
 


Deferred income taxes
 
 
4,552
 
 
 
18,057
 
 
 
8,214
 


Changes in assets and liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(Increase) decrease in accounts receivable
 
 
(78,883
)
 
 
(153,905
)
 
 
10,981
 


(Increase) decrease in inventories
 
 
(8,247
)
 
 
(39,232
)
 
 
1,813
 


Decrease (increase) in other current assets
 
 
25,895
 
 
 
(16,884
)
 
 
1,461
 


(Increase) decrease in other assets
 
 
(12,107
)
 
 
3,794
 
 
 
2,743
 


Increase (decrease) in accounts payable
 
 
45,205
 
 
 
157,556
 
 
 
(15,207
)


(Decrease) increase in deferred revenue
 
 
(17,926
)
 
 
15,284
 
 
 
16,806
 


(Decrease) increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities
 
 
(735
)
 
 
(14,322
)
 
 
1,342
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net cash provided by operating activities
 
 
115,725
 
 
 
98,181
 
 
 
122,674
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash flows from investing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Acquisition, net of cash acquired
 
 
(13,769
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


Payment of additional purchase price consideration for Calence
 
 
—
 
 
 
(5,123
)
 
 
(21,713
)


Purchases of property and equipment
 
 
(27,093
)
 
 
(17,972
)
 
 
(14,707
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(40,862
)
 
 
(23,095
)
 
 
(36,420
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash flows from financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Borrowings on senior revolving credit facility
 
 
1,314,500
 
 
 
1,150,136
 
 
 
1,043,373
 


Repayments on senior revolving credit facility
 
 
(1,289,500
)
 
 
(1,207,136
)
 
 
(1,124,373
)


Borrowings on accounts receivable securitization financing
facility
 
 
90,000
 
 
 
65,000
 
 
 
165,000
 


Repayments on accounts receivable securitization financing
facility
 
 
(90,000
)
 
 
(65,000
)
 
 
(165,000
)


Payments on capital lease obligation
 
 
(997
)
 
 
(927
)
 
 
(324
)


Net (repayments) borrowings under inventory financing facility
 
 
(41,179
)
 
 
40,830
 
 
 
13,378
 


Payment of deferred financing fees
 
 
—
 
 
 
(490
)
 
 
(1,632
)


Proceeds from sales of common stock under employee stock plans
 
 
37
 
 
 
49
 
 
 
—
 


Excess tax benefit from employee gains on stock-based
compensation
 
 
1,809
 
 
 
1,073
 
 
 
—
 


Payment of payroll taxes on stock-based compensation through
shares withheld
 
 
(2,697
)
 
 
(1,429
)
 
 
(691
)


Repurchases of common stock
 
 
(50,000
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(68,027
)
 
 
(17,894
)
 
 
(70,269
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Foreign currency exchange effect on cash flows
 
 
(2,263
)
 
 
(1,495
)
 
 
2,906
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
4,573
 
 
 
55,697
 
 
 
18,891
 


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
123,763
 
 
 
68,066
 
 
 
49,175
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
128,336
 
 
$
123,763
 
 
$
68,066
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash paid during the year for interest
 
$
3,706
 
 
$
4,516
 
 
$
5,207
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash paid during the year for income taxes
 
$
28,960
 
 
$
11,584
 
 
$
4,101
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


 

47



Table of Contents





INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(1) Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Description of Business

We are a leading provider of information technology (“IT”) hardware, software and services to
small, medium and large businesses and public sector clients in North America, Europe, the Middle
East, Africa and Asia-Pacific. The Company is organized in the following three operating segments,
which are primarily defined by their related geographies:





 
 
 


Operating Segment
 
Geography




North America

 
United States and Canada

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


EMEA

 
Europe, Middle East and Africa


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


APAC

 
Asia-Pacific




Currently, our offerings in North America, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany
include IT hardware, software and services. Our offerings in the remainder of our EMEA segment and
in APAC currently only include software and select software-related services.



Acquisition

On October 1, 2011, we acquired Ensynch, Incorporated, (“Ensynch”), a Tempe, Arizona-based
professional services firm with multiple Microsoft Gold competencies across the complete Microsoft
solution set, including cloud migration and management, for a cash purchase price of $13,058,000,
net of cash acquired, plus working capital adjustments totaling approximately $711,000.



Principles of Consolidation and Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Insight Enterprises, Inc. and
its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation. References to “the Company,” “Insight,” “we,” “us,” “our” and other
similar words refer to Insight Enterprises, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the
context suggests otherwise.



Use of Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, these estimates
and assumptions affect the reported amounts of sales and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates,
including those related to sales recognition, anticipated achievement levels under partner funding
programs, assumptions related to stock-based compensation valuation, allowances for doubtful
accounts, litigation-related obligations, valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and
impairment of long-lived assets, including purchased intangibles and goodwill, if indicators of
potential impairment exist.



Cash Equivalents

We consider all highly liquid investments with maturities at the date of purchase of three
months or less to be cash equivalents.



Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts using estimated losses on accounts receivable
based on evaluation of the aging of the receivables, historical write-offs and the current economic
environment. We write off individual accounts against the reserve when we become aware of a
client’s or vendor’s inability to meet its financial obligations,
such as in the case of bankruptcy filings, or deterioration in the client’s or vendor’s
operating results or financial position.


 


48



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



Inventories

We state inventories, principally purchased IT hardware, at the lower of weighted average cost
(which approximates cost under the first-in, first-out method) or market. We evaluate inventories
for excess, obsolescence or other factors that may render inventories unmarketable at normal
margins. Write-downs are recorded so that inventories reflect the approximate net realizable value
and take into account contractual provisions with our partners governing price protection, stock
rotation and return privileges relating to obsolescence.

Inventories not available for sale relate to product sales transactions in which we are
warehousing the product and will be deploying the product to clients’ designated locations
subsequent to period-end. Additionally, we may perform services on a portion of the product prior
to shipment to our clients and will be paid a fee for doing so. Although these product contracts
are non-cancelable with customary credit terms beginning the date the inventories are segregated in
our warehouse and invoiced to the client and the warranty periods begin on the date of invoice,
these transactions do not meet the sales recognition criteria under GAAP. Therefore, we do not
record sales and the inventories are classified as “inventories not available for sale” on our
consolidated balance sheet until the product is delivered. If clients remit payment before we
deliver product to them, we record the payments received as “deferred revenue” on our consolidated
balance sheet until such time as the product is delivered.



Property and Equipment

We record property and equipment at cost. We capitalize major improvements and betterments,
while maintenance, repairs and minor replacements are expensed as incurred. Depreciation or
amortization is provided using the straight-line method over the following estimated economic lives
of the assets:







 
 
 


 
 
Estimated Economic Life




Leasehold improvements

 
Shorter of underlying lease term or asset life


Furniture and fixtures

 
2 – 7 years


Equipment

 
3 – 5 years


Software

 
3 – 10 years


Buildings

 
29 years






Costs incurred to develop internal-use software during the application development stage,
including capitalized interest, are recorded in property and equipment at cost. External direct
costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining internal-use computer software
and payroll and payroll-related costs for teammates who are directly associated with and who devote
time to internal-use computer software development projects, to the extent of the time spent
directly on the project and specific to application development, are capitalized.

Reviews are regularly performed to determine whether facts and circumstances exist which
indicate that the useful life is shorter than originally estimated or the carrying amount of assets
may not be recoverable. When an indication exists that the carrying amount of long-lived assets
may not be recoverable, we assess the recoverability of our assets by comparing the projected
undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of assets over their
remaining lives against their respective carrying amounts. Such impairment test is based on the
lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other
groups of assets and liabilities. Impairment, if any, is based on the excess of the carrying
amount over the estimated fair value of those assets.



Goodwill

Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price paid for an acquisition exceeds the estimated
fair value of net identified tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is tested for
impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and between annual
tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair
value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. The impairment review process compares the
fair value of the reporting unit in which goodwill resides to its carrying value. The Company has
three reporting units, which are the same as our operating segments. Multiple valuation techniques
can be used to assess the fair value of the
reporting unit. All of these techniques include the use of estimates and assumptions that are
inherently uncertain. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the
determination of fair value or goodwill impairment, or both.


 


49



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



Intangible Assets

We amortize intangible assets acquired in business combinations using the straight-line method
over the following estimated economic lives of the intangible assets from the date of acquisition:







 
 
 


 
 
Estimated Economic Life




Customer relationships

 
2 – 11 years


Backlog

 
10 months – 5 years


Acquired technology related assets

 
1 – 3 years


Other

 
9 months – 2 years






We regularly perform reviews to determine if facts and circumstances exist which indicate that
the useful lives of our long-lived assets are shorter than originally estimated or the carrying
amount of these assets may not be recoverable. When an indication exists that the carrying amount
of intangible assets may not be recoverable, we assess the recoverability of our assets by
comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of
assets over their remaining lives against their respective carrying amounts. Such impairment test
is based on the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash
flows of other groups of assets and liabilities. Impairment, if any, is based on the excess of the
carrying amount over the estimated fair value of those assets.



Book Overdrafts

Book overdrafts represent the amount by which outstanding checks issued, but not yet presented
to our banks for disbursement, exceed balances on deposit in applicable bank accounts and a legal
right of offset with our positive cash balances in other financial institution accounts does not
exist. Our book overdrafts, which are not directly linked to a credit facility or other bank
overdraft arrangement, do not result in an actual bank financing, but rather constitute normal
unpaid trade payables at the end of a reporting period. These amounts are included within our
accounts payable balance in our consolidated balance sheets. The changes in these book overdrafts
are included within the changes in accounts payable line item as a component of cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements
of cash flows.



Trade Credits

Trade credit liabilities arise from aged unclaimed credit memos, duplicate payments, payments
for returned product or overpayments made to us by our clients, and, to a lesser extent, from goods
received by us from a supplier for which we were never invoiced. Trade credit liabilities are
included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We
derecognize the liability if and only if it has been extinguished, upon either (1) our payment of
the liability to relieve our obligation or (2) our legal release from the related obligation.
During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, $4,292,000, $8,617,000 and $3,866,000,
respectively, was recorded as a reduction of costs of goods sold as result of the negotiated
settlement or other legal release of trade credits.



Self Insurance

We are self-insured in the U.S. for medical insurance up to certain annual stop-loss limits
and workers’ compensation claims up to certain deductible limits. We establish reserves for
claims, both reported and incurred but not reported, using currently available information as well
as our historical claims experience. As of December 31, 2011, we have $700,000 on deposit with our
claims administrator which acts as security for our future payment obligations under our workers’
compensation program.


 


50



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued)



Foreign Currencies

We use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency. The functional currencies of our
significant foreign subsidiaries are generally the local currencies. Accordingly, assets and
liabilities of the subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at
the balance sheet dates. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rate for
each month within the year. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded directly in
accumulated other
comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Net foreign currency
transaction gains/losses, including transaction gains/losses on intercompany balances that are not
of a long-term investment nature and non-functional currency cash balances, are reported as a
separate component of non-operating (income) expense in our consolidated statements of operations.



Derivative Financial Instruments

We enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the risk of non-functional
currency monetary assets and liabilities on our consolidated financial statements. These forward
contracts are not designated as hedge instruments. The fair value of all derivative assets and
liabilities are recorded gross in the other current assets and accrued expenses and other current
liabilities sections of the balance sheet. Gains/losses are recorded net in non-operating (income)
expense.



Treasury Stock

We record repurchases of our common stock as treasury stock at cost. We also record the
subsequent retirement of these treasury shares at cost. The excess of the cost of the shares
retired over their par value is allocated between additional paid-in capital and retained earnings.
The amount recorded as a reduction of paid-in capital is based on the excess of the average
original issue price of the shares over par value. The remaining amount is recorded as a reduction
of retained earnings.



Sales Recognition

Sales are recognized when title and risk of loss are passed to the client, there is persuasive
evidence of an arrangement for sale, delivery has occurred and/or services have been rendered, the
sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Usual sales terms
are F.O.B. shipping point or equivalent, at which time title and risk of loss have passed to the
client. However, because we either (i) have a general practice of covering client losses while
products are in transit despite title and risk of loss contractually transferring at the point of
shipment or (ii) have specifically stated F.O.B. destination contractual terms with the client,
delivery is not deemed to have occurred until the point in time when the product is received by the
client.

We make provisions for estimated product returns that we expect to occur under our return
policy based upon historical return rates. Our manufacturers warrant most of the products we
market, and it is our policy to request that clients return their defective products directly to
the manufacturer for warranty service. On selected products, and for selected client service
reasons, we may accept returns directly from the client and then either credit the client or ship a
replacement product. We generally offer a limited 15- to 30-day return policy for unopened
products and certain opened products, which are consistent with manufacturers’ terms; however, for
some products we may charge restocking fees. Products returned opened are processed and returned
to the manufacturer or partner for repair, replacement or credit to us. We resell most unopened
products returned to us. Products that cannot be returned to the manufacturer for warranty
processing, but are in working condition, are sold to inventory liquidators, to end users as
“previously sold” or “used” products, or through other channels to reduce our losses from returned
products.

We record the freight we bill to our clients as net sales and the related freight costs we pay
as costs of goods sold. We report sales net of any sales-based taxes assessed by governmental
authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with sales transactions.

Revenue is recognized from software sales when clients acquire the right to use or copy
software under license, but in no case prior to the commencement of the term of the initial
software license agreement, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met
(i.e., delivery, evidence of the arrangement exists, the fee is fixed or determinable and
collectibility of the fee is probable).

 


51



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


The sale of hardware and software products may also include the provision of services and the
associated contracts contain multiple elements or non-standard terms and conditions. Services that
are performed by us in conjunction with hardware and software sales that are completed in our
facilities prior to shipment of the product are recognized upon delivery, when title passes to the
client, for the hardware sale. Net sales of services that are performed at client locations are
often service-only contracts and are recorded as sales when the services are performed. If the services are performed at a client location in conjunction with a hardware,
software or other services sale, we recognize net sales for
each portion of the overall arrangement fee that is attributable to the items as they are
delivered or the services are performed. At the inception of the arrangement, the total consideration for the arrangement is allocated
to all deliverables using the relative selling price method.
The relative selling price method allocates any discount in the arrangement proportionately to each
deliverable on the basis of each deliverable’s selling price. We determine our best estimate of
selling price in a manner that is consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the
deliverable on a standalone basis. The revenue allocation is based on vendor-specific objective
evidence of fair value of the products.
We currently do not have any material instances in which we account for revenue from multiple
element arrangements when vendor-specific evidence does not exist. If vendor-specific objective
evidence were not available, we would utilize third-party evidence to allocate the selling price.
If neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third- party evidence were available, estimated
selling price would be used for allocation purposes.

We sell certain third-party service contracts and software assurance or subscription products
for which we are not the primary obligor. These sales do not meet the criteria for gross sales
recognition, and thus are recorded on a net sales recognition basis. As we enter into contracts
with third-party service providers or vendors, we evaluate whether the subsequent sales of such
services should be recorded as gross sales or net sales. We determine whether we act as a
principal in the transaction and assume the risks and rewards of ownership or if we are simply
acting as an agent or broker. Under gross sales recognition, the entire selling price is recorded
in sales and our cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded in costs of goods
sold. Under net sales recognition, the cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is
recorded as a reduction to sales, resulting in net sales equal to the gross profit on the
transaction, and there are no costs of goods sold.

Sales of services under which the time period over which the service will be provided is
known, but there is no discernable pattern of recognition of the cost to perform the service, are
accounted for as subscriptions, with billings recorded as deferred revenue and recognized as
revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Revenue from certain arrangements that allow for
the use of a product or service over a period of time without taking possession of software are
also accounted for as subscriptions.

Additionally, we sell certain professional services contracts on a fixed fee basis. Revenues
for fixed fee professional services contracts are recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred
to total estimated costs. Net sales for these service contracts are not a significant portion of
our consolidated net sales.



Costs of Goods Sold

Costs of goods sold include product costs, direct costs incurred associated with delivering
services, outbound and inbound freight costs and provisions for inventory reserves. These costs
are reduced by provisions for supplier discounts and certain payments and credits received from
partners, as described under “Partner Funding” below.



Selling and Administrative Expenses

Selling and administrative expenses include salaries and wages, bonuses and incentives,
stock-based compensation expense, employee-related expenses, facility-related expenses, marketing
and advertising expense, reduced by certain payments and credits received from partners related to
shared marketing expense programs, as described under “Partner Funding” below, depreciation of
property and equipment, professional fees, amortization of intangible assets, provisions for losses
on accounts receivable and other operating expenses.



Partner Funding

We receive payments and credits from partners, including consideration pursuant to volume sales
incentive programs, volume purchase incentive programs and shared marketing expense programs.
Partner funding received pursuant to volume sales incentive programs is recognized as it is earned
as a reduction to costs of goods sold. Partner funding received pursuant to volume purchase
incentive programs is allocated as a reduction to inventories based on the applicable incentives
earned from each partner and is recorded in cost of goods sold as the inventory is sold. Partner


 


52



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



funding received pursuant to shared marketing expense programs is recorded as it is
earned as a reduction of the related selling and administrative expenses in the period the program
takes place only if the consideration represents a reimbursement of specific, incremental,
identifiable costs. Consideration that exceeds the specific, incremental, identifiable costs is
classified as a reduction of costs of goods sold. The amount of partner funding recorded as a
reduction of selling and administrative expenses totaled $28,269,000, $23,826,000 and $19,755,000
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Concentrations of Risk

Credit Risk

Although we are affected by the international economic climate, management does not believe
material credit risk concentration existed at December 31, 2011. We monitor our clients’ financial
condition and do not require collateral. No single client accounted for more than 3% of our
consolidated net sales in 2011.

Supplier Risk

Purchases from Microsoft, Ingram Micro (a distributor) and HP accounted for approximately 18%,
11% and 11%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases in 2011. No other partner accounted for more
than 10% of purchases in 2011. Our top five partners as a group for 2011 were Microsoft, Ingram
Micro, HP, Cisco and Tech Data (a distributor), and approximately 56% of our total purchases during
2011 came from this group of partners. Although brand names and individual products are important
to our business, we believe that competitive sources of supply are available in substantially all
of our product categories such that, with the exception of Microsoft, we are not dependent on any
single partner for sourcing products.



Advertising Costs

Advertising costs are expensed as they are incurred. Advertising expense of $26,439,000,
$23,736,000 and $21,751,000 was recorded for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. These amounts were partially offset by partner funding earned pursuant to shared
marketing expense programs recorded as a reduction of selling and administrative expenses, as
discussed above.



Stock-Based Compensation

Stock-based compensation is measured based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant
and the corresponding expense is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to
provide service in exchange for the reward. Stock-based compensation expense is classified in the
same line item of the consolidated statements of operations as other payroll-related expenses
specific to the employee. Compensation expense related to service-based restricted stock units
(“RSUs”) is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire
award. Compensation expense related to performance-based RSUs is recognized on a straight-line
basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the
award was, in-substance, multiple awards (i.e., a graded vesting basis).



Income Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable earnings in the years in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the
enactment date.


 


53



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



Net Earnings From Continuing Operations Per Share (“EPS”)

Basic EPS is computed by dividing net earnings from continuing operations available to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each year. Diluted
EPS is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock plus the
effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock
method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and restricted stock
units. A reconciliation of the denominators of the basic and diluted EPS calculations follows (in
thousands, except per share data):







 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Numerator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings from continuing operations
 
$
100,235
 
 
$
75,485
 
 
$
30,773
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Denominator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Weighted-average shares used to compute basic EPS
 
 
45,474
 
 
 
46,218
 
 
 
45,838
 


Potential dilutive common shares due to dilutive stock
options and restricted stock units
 
 
547
 
 
 
594
 
 
 
433
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Weighted-average shares used to compute diluted EPS
 
 
46,021
 
 
 
46,812
 
 
 
46,271
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings from continuing operations per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Basic
 
$
2.20
 
 
$
1.63
 
 
$
0.67
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Diluted
 
$
2.18
 
 
$
1.61
 
 
$
0.67
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 208,000, 343,000 and 1,554,000,
respectively, of weighted-average outstanding stock options were not included in the diluted EPS
calculations because the exercise prices of these options were greater than the average market
price of our common stock during the respective periods.


Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards
Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-04, “Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure
Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs” (“ASU 2011-04”), which amends current guidance to result in
common fair value measurement and disclosures between accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States and International Financial Reporting Standards. The amendments explain how to
measure fair value. They do not require additional fair value measurements and are not intended to
establish valuations standards or affect valuation practices outside of financial reporting. ASU
2011-04 clarifies the application of certain existing fair value measurement guidance and expands
the disclosures for fair value measurements that are estimated using significant unobservable
inputs. The adoption of the provisions of this accounting guidance effective January 1, 2012 is
not expected to have any effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, “Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (“ASU
2011-05”), which is intended to improve the comparability, consistency, and transparency of
financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income
(“OCI”) by eliminating the option to present components of OCI as part of the statement of changes
in stockholders’ equity. The amendments in this standard require that all non-owner changes in
stockholders’ equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income
or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendments in these standards do not change the
items that must be reported in OCI, when an item of OCI must be reclassified to net income, or
change the option for an entity to present components of OCI gross or net of the effect of income
taxes. The adoption of the provisions of this accounting guidance effective January 1, 2012 will
change our current presentation of OCI as part of the statement of stockholders’ equity, but is not
expected to have any effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, “Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (“ASU
2011-08”), which allows entities to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment.
ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is
more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If
it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step
goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The
adoption of the provisions of this accounting guidance effective January 1, 2012 is not expected to
have any effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.


 


54



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(2) Property and Equipment



Property and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 




Software
 
$
135,126
 
 
$
125,222
 


Buildings
 
 
73,580
 
 
 
73,055
 


Equipment
 
 
74,368
 
 
 
65,278
 


Furniture and fixtures
 
 
36,524
 
 
 
34,344
 


Leasehold improvements
 
 
21,510
 
 
 
19,595
 


Land
 
 
7,696
 
 
 
7,714
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
348,804
 
 
 
325,208
 


Accumulated depreciation and amortization
 
 
(208,099
)
 
 
(183,809
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Property and equipment, net
 
$
140,705
 
 
$
141,399
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 





During 2011, we periodically assessed whether any indicators of impairment existed related to
our property and equipment. We incurred a non-cash charge of $1,390,000 during 2011 to write-off
certain computer software development costs that will not be placed into service as a result of the
North America IT systems integration project. No other indicators of impairment were identified
during 2011.

Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment was $26,607,000,
$26,055,000 and $28,734,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Interest charges capitalized in connection with internal-use software development projects in the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were immaterial. 


(3) Goodwill


The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2011 are as
follows (in thousands):






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
North America
 
 
EMEA
 
 
APAC
 
 
Consolidated
 




Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Goodwill
 
$
339,896
 
 
$
151,439
 
 
$
13,973
 
 
$
505,308
 


Accumulated impairment losses
 
 
(323,422
)
 
 
(151,439
)
 
 
(13,973
)
 
 
(488,834
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
16,474
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
16,474
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Goodwill acquired during the year
 
 
9,783
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
9,783
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Goodwill
 
 
349,679
 
 
 
151,439
 
 
 
13,973
 
 
 
515,091
 


Accumulated impairment losses
 
 
(323,422
)
 
 
(151,439
)
 
 
(13,973
)
 
 
(488,834
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
26,257
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
26,257
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recorded as goodwill $645,000 and
$15,829,000, respectively, of additional purchase price consideration and the related accrued
interest thereon as a result of Calence, LLC (“Calence”), acquired on April 1, 2008, achieving
certain performance targets during the respective year. In 2010 and 2009, scheduled cash payments
of $5,123,000 and $21,713,000, respectively, were made to the former owners of Calence related to
additional purchase price consideration and the related accrued interest thereon as a result of
Calence achieving certain performance targets during 2010, 2009 and 2008. The final payment was
made on April 1, 2010. Such amounts are reflected as investing activities within our consolidated
statements of cash flows.

On October 1, 2011, we acquired Ensynch, which has been integrated into our North America
business. Under the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price for the acquisition was
allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based
on their estimated fair values. The excess purchase price over fair value of net assets acquired
of $9,783,000 was recorded as goodwill in the North America reporting unit (see Note 19). The
primary driver for these acquisitions was to enhance our professional services capabilities across
the complete Microsoft solution set, including cloud migration and management.

 


55



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


During 2011, we periodically assessed whether any indicators of impairment existed which would
require us to perform an interim impairment review. As of each interim period end during the year,
we concluded that a triggering event had not occurred that would more likely than not reduce the
fair value of our North America reporting unit (the only reporting unit with a goodwill balance at
any period end) below its carrying value. We performed our annual test of goodwill for impairment
during the fourth quarter of 2011. The results of the first step of the two-step goodwill
impairment test indicated that the fair value of our North America reporting unit, estimated using
the market approach, was in excess of the carrying value, and thus we did not perform step two of
the impairment test.


(4) Intangible Assets



Intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 




Customer relationships
 
$
112,083
 
 
$
110,743
 


Backlog
 
 
7,190
 
 
 
7,393
 


Acquired technology related assets
 
 
140
 
 
 
1,700
 


Other
 
 
430
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
119,843
 
 
 
119,836
 


Accumulated amortization
 
 
(60,822
)
 
 
(50,755
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Intangible assets, net
 
$
59,021
 
 
$
69,081
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 





During 2011, we periodically assessed whether any indicators of impairment existed related to
our intangible assets. As of each interim period end during the year, we concluded that a
triggering event had not occurred that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our
intangible assets below their carrying values.

Amortization expense recognized for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was
$12,532,000, $11,958,000 and $12,429,000, respectively. The acquired technology related assets
values at $1,700,000 from the Software Spectrum acquisition was fully amortized in September 2011.
Future amortization expense for the remaining unamortized balance is estimated as follows (in
thousands):






 
 
 
 
 


Years Ending December 31,
 
Amortization Expense
 




2012
 
$
12,446
 


2013
 
 
11,295
 


2014
 
 
11,098
 


2015
 
 
11,083
 


2016
 
 
8,814
 


Thereafter
 
 
4,285
 


 
 
 
 


Total amortization expense
 
$
59,021
 


 
 
 
 






(5) Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities


Included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is
an accrual for $82,449,000 and $74,223,000, respectively, of sales tax, value-added tax and other
indirect taxes.

 


56



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(6) Debt, Capital Lease Obligation and Inventory Financing Facility


Debt


Our long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 




Senior revolving credit facility
 
$
115,000
 
 
$
90,000
 


Accounts receivable securitization financing facility
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


Capital lease obligation
 
 
1,619
 
 
 
2,616
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total
 
 
116,619
 
 
 
92,616
 


Less: current portion of obligation under capital lease
 
 
(1,017
)
 
 
(997
)


Less: current portion of revolving credit facilities
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Long-term debt
 
$
115,602
 
 
$
91,619
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 





On April 1, 2008, we entered into a five-year $300,000,000 senior revolving credit facility.
Amounts outstanding under the senior revolving credit facility bear interest, payable quarterly, at
a floating rate equal to the prime rate or, at our option, a LIBOR rate plus a pre-determined
spread of 0.75% to 1.75%. In addition, we pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the
facility of 0.175% to 0.35%. The weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding under our
senior revolving credit facility, including the commitment fee and origination costs incurred, was
1.7%, 2.1% and 2.6% during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of
December 31, 2011, $185,000,000 was available under the senior revolving credit facility. The
senior revolving credit facility matures on April 1, 2013.

We have a $150,000,000 accounts receivable securitization financing facility (the “ABS
facility”) pursuant to which we can sell receivables periodically to a special purpose accounts
receivable and financing entity (the “SPE”), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing receivables
from us. The SPE is a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote entity that we have included in our
consolidated financial statements. The SPE funds its purchases by selling undivided interests in
eligible trade accounts receivable to a multi-seller conduit administered by an independent
financial institution. The SPE’s assets are available first and foremost to satisfy the claims of
the creditors of the conduit. We maintain effective control over the receivables that are sold.
Accordingly, the receivables remain recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31,
2011 and 2010, the SPE owned $487,399,000 and $616,339,000, respectively, of receivables recorded
at fair value and included in our consolidated balance sheets. Under certain circumstances, the
Company may be required to obtain a public rating of the ABS facility from one or more credit
rating agencies of at least “A” or its equivalent. Failure by the Company to obtain such rating
would result in an Amortization Event under the ABS facility. While the ABS facility has
a stated maximum amount, the Company’s ability to borrow up to the full $150,000,000 under the ABS
facility is based on formulae relating to the amount and quality of the Company’s accounts
receivable in the United States. Total availability under our ABS facility at December 31, 2011
was $150,000,000. The ABS facility matures on April 1, 2013.

No amounts were outstanding under the ABS facility at December 31, 2011 or 2010. Interest is
payable monthly, and the interest rate which would have been applicable at December 31, 2011 had
there been outstanding balances was 1.71% per annum. In addition, we pay a commitment fee on the
unused portion of the facility of 0.75%. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, due to
availability under our other debt and financing facilities, weighted average borrowings under our
ABS facility were only $5,744,000 and $1,671,000, respectively. Interest expense associated with
the ABS facility was $1,488,000 and $2,139,000 in 2011 and 2010, respectively, including the
commitment fee and amortization to interest expense of deferred financing fees capitalized in
conjunction with amendments to the ABS facility. Comparatively, during the year ended December 31,
2009, our weighted average interest rate per annum and weighted average borrowings under the
facility were 8.5% and $27,449,000, respectively.

Capital Lease Obligation

In July 2009, we entered into a four-year lease for certain IT equipment. We amended this
lease in November 2009 and again in July 2010 to include additional IT equipment. The July 2010
amendment added $319,000 to the value of the equipment held under the capitalized lease. These
obligations under the capitalized lease are included in long-term debt in our consolidated balance
sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The current and long-term portions of the obligation are
included in the table above. The capital lease was a non-cash transaction and, accordingly, is not
reflected in our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
or 2009.

 


57



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


The cost of the equipment held under the capitalized lease, $3,867,000, is included in
property and equipment. These capital lease assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
lease term. The related amortization expense is included in selling and administrative expenses in
our consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, accumulated amortization on the capital lease assets was $2,287,000
and $1,283,000, respectively.


Future minimum payments under the capitalized lease consist of the following as of December
31, 2011 (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 


Years Ending December 31,
 
 
 
 




2012
 
$
1,039
 


2013
 
 
606
 


 
 
 
 


Total minimum lease payments
 
 
1,645
 


Less amount representing interest
 
 
(26
)


 
 
 
 


Present value of minimum lease payments
 
$
1,619
 


 
 
 
 





Inventory Financing Facility

The aggregate availability for vendor purchases under our inventory financing facility is
$150,000,000. The facility matures on April 1, 2013 but may be cancelled with 90 days notice.
Additionally, the facility may be renewed under certain circumstances described in the agreement
for successive 12-month periods. Interest does not accrue on accounts payable under this
facility provided the accounts payable are paid within stated vendor terms (ranging from 30 to 60
days). We impute interest on the average daily balance outstanding during these stated vendor
terms based on our blended incremental borrowing rate during the period under our senior revolving
credit facility and our ABS facility. Imputed interest of $1,978,000, $2,112,000 and $1,798,000
was recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If balances are not paid within stated vendor
terms, they will accrue interest at prime plus 1.25%. The facility is guaranteed by the Company
and each of its material domestic subsidiaries and is secured by a lien on substantially all of the
Company’s domestic assets that is of equal priority to the liens securing borrowings under our
senior revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $93,933,000 and $135,112,000,
respectively, was included in accounts payable related to this facility.

Covenants

Our financing facilities contain various covenants customary for transactions of this type,
including the requirement that we comply with maximum leverage, minimum fixed charge and minimum
asset coverage ratio requirements and meet monthly, quarterly and annual reporting requirements.
If we fail to comply with these covenants, the lenders would be able to demand payment within a
specified period of time. At December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all such covenants.

Our consolidated debt balance that can be outstanding at the end of any fiscal quarter under
our senior revolving credit facility and our ABS facility is limited by certain financial
covenants, particularly a maximum leverage ratio. The maximum leverage ratio is calculated as
aggregate debt outstanding divided by the sum of the Company’s trailing 12-month net earnings
(loss) plus (i) interest expense, excluding non-cash imputed interest on our inventory financing
facility, (ii) income tax expense (benefit), (iii) depreciation and amortization and (iv) non-cash
stock-based compensation (referred to herein as “adjusted earnings”). The maximum leverage ratio
permitted under the agreements was 2.50 times as of December 31, 2011. A significant drop in the
Company’s adjusted earnings would limit the amount of indebtedness that could be outstanding at the
end of any fiscal quarter, to a level that could be below the Company’s consolidated maximum debt
capacity. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s total debt balance that could have been
outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility and our ABS facility was equal to the
maximum available under the facilities of $450,000,000.

 


58



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(7) Market Risk Management


Interest Rate Risk

We have interest rate exposure arising from our financing facilities, which have variable
interest rates. These variable interest rates are affected by changes in short-term interest
rates. We currently do not hedge our interest rate exposure.

We do not believe that the effect of reasonably possible near-term changes in interest rates
will be material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our financing
facilities expose our net earnings to changes in short-term interest rates since interest rates on
the underlying obligations are variable. We had $115,000,000 outstanding under our senior
revolving credit facility and no amounts outstanding under our ABS facility at December 31, 2011.
The interest rates attributable to the borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility and
the ABS facility were 1.62% and 1.71%, respectively, per annum at December 31, 2011. The change in
annual earnings from continuing operations, pretax, resulting from a hypothetical 10% increase or
decrease in the highest applicable interest rate would approximate $289,000.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency. The functional currencies of our
significant foreign subsidiaries are generally the local currencies. Accordingly, assets and
liabilities of the subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at
the balance sheet dates. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rate for
each month within the year. Translation adjustments are recorded in other comprehensive income as
a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Net foreign currency transaction gains/losses,
including transaction gains/losses on intercompany balances that are not of a long-term investment
nature, are reported as a separate component of non-operating (income) expense, net in our
consolidated statements of operations. We also maintain cash accounts denominated in currencies
other than the functional currency which expose us to foreign exchange rate movements.
Remeasurement of these cash balances results in gains/losses that are also reported as a separate
component of non-operating (income) expense.

We monitor our foreign currency exposure and selectively enter into forward exchange contracts
to mitigate risk associated with certain non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities
related to foreign denominated payables, receivables, and cash balances. Transaction gains and
losses resulting from non-functional currency assets and liabilities are offset by forward
contracts in non-operating (income) and expense, net. The Company does not have a significant
concentration of credit risk with any single counterparty.

The Company generally enters into forward contracts with maturities of one month or less. The
derivatives entered into during 2011 were not designated as hedges. The following derivative
contracts were entered into during the year ended December 31, 2011, and remained open and
outstanding at December 31, 2011. All U.S. dollar and foreign currency amounts (Canadian Dollars
and British Pounds) are presented in thousands.






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Buy
 
Buy




Foreign Currency
 
CAD
 
GBP


Foreign Amount
 
 
20,000
 
 
 
7,736
 


Exchange Rate
 
 
1.0155
 
 
 
1.5511
 


USD Equivalent
 
$
19,695
 
 
$
12,000
 


Maturity Date
 
January 4, 2012
 
January 6, 2012





The Company does not enter into derivative contracts for speculative or trading purposes. The
fair value of all forward contracts at December 31, 2011 was a net liability of $94,000.


(8) Leases 


We have several non-cancelable operating leases with third parties, primarily for
administrative and distribution center space and computer equipment. Our facilities leases
generally provide for periodic rent increases and many contain escalation clauses and renewal
options. We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rental expense
for these third-party operating leases was $14,821,000, $15,643,000 and $15,561,000 for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and is included in selling and administrative
expenses in our consolidated statements of operations.

 


59



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases (with initial or remaining
lease terms in excess of one year) as of December 31, 2011 are as follows (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 


Years Ending December 31,
 
 
 
 




2012
 
$
13,501
 


2013
 
 
11,820
 


2014
 
 
10,143
 


2015
 
 
8,242
 


2016
 
 
5,231
 


Thereafter
 
 
10,342
 


 
 
 
 


Total minimum lease payments
 
$
59,279
 


 
 
 
 






(9) Severance, Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Activities


Severance Costs Expensed for 2011 Resource Actions

During the year ended December 31, 2011, North America and EMEA recorded severance expense
totaling $2,425,000 and $2,737,000, respectively, relating to 2011 restructuring actions. The
charges were associated with severance for the elimination of certain positions based on a
re-alignment of roles and responsibilities.


The following table details the 2011 activity and the outstanding obligation related to the
2011 severance actions as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
North America
 
 
EMEA
 
 
Consolidated
 




Severance costs
 
$
2,425
 
 
$
2,737
 
 
$
5,162
 


Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—
 
 
 
(229
)
 
 
(229
)


Cash payments
 
 
(1,800
)
 
 
(1,284
)
 
 
(3,084
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Balance at December 31, 2011
 
$
625
 
 
$
1,224
 
 
$
1,849
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





The remaining outstanding obligations are expected to be paid during 2012 and are therefore
included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities.

Severance Costs Expensed for 2010 Resource Actions

During the year ended December 31, 2010, North America and EMEA recorded severance expense
totaling $2,003,000 and $1,476,000, respectively, relating to 2010 restructuring actions. The
North America charge was part of the roll-out of our new sales engagement model and the restructuring of  leadership in key areas, and the EMEA charge was associated with the severance for the
elimination of certain positions based on a re-alignment of roles and responsibilities.


The following table details the 2011 activity and the outstanding obligation related to the
2010 severance actions as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
North America
 
 
EMEA
 
 
Consolidated
 




Balance at December 31, 2010
 
$
1,166
 
 
$
575
 
 
$
1,741
 


Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—
 
 
 
59
 
 
 
59
 


Adjustments
 
 
(45
)
 
 
(19
)
 
 
(64
)


Cash payments
 
 
(1,087
)
 
 
(493
)
 
 
(1,580
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Balance at December 31, 2011
 
$
34
 
 
$
122
 
 
$
156
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





During 2011, adjustments were recorded in North America and EMEA as a reduction to severance
and restructuring expense and a reduction of the related severance accrual due to changes in
estimates as cash payments were made. The remaining outstanding obligations are expected to be
paid during 2012 and are therefore included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities.

Prior Resource Actions

In 2009, as a result of ongoing restructuring efforts to reduce operating expenses, certain
severance costs were recorded in each of our operating segments. As of December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, the only remaining outstanding obligations related to 2009 resource actions was
approximately $109,000 and $418,000, respectively, in our EMEA segment. During 2011,


 

60



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



the liability decreased from $418,000 to $109,000 due to cash
payments totaling approximately $286,000, adjustments of $13,000 recorded as a reduction to
severance and restructuring expense due to changes in estimates and foreign currency translation
adjustments. The remaining outstanding obligations are expected to be paid during 2012 and are
therefore included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities.

In 2006, we recorded employee termination benefits and facility based costs in connection with
the integration of Software Spectrum. As of December 31, 2010, the total liability remaining for
these costs was $695,000 in our EMEA segment. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the
liability was settled through cash payments, leaving no accrual balance as of December 31, 2011.


(10) Income Taxes


The following table presents the U.S. and foreign components of earnings from continuing
operations before income taxes and the related income tax expense (in thousands):


Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




U.S.
 
$
87,436
 
 
$
71,271
 
 
$
14,644
 


Foreign
 
 
54,253
 
 
 
43,903
 
 
 
27,099
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
141,689
 
 
$
115,174
 
 
$
41,743
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






Income tax expense from continuing operations:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Current:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


U.S. Federal
 
$
18,410
 
 
$
8,850
 
 
$
(4,804
)


U.S. State and local
 
 
1,113
 
 
 
1,251
 
 
 
(237
)


Foreign
 
 
17,379
 
 
 
11,531
 
 
 
8,876
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
36,902
 
 
 
21,632
 
 
 
3,835
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Deferred:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


U.S. Federal
 
 
4,440
 
 
 
15,466
 
 
 
6,293
 


U.S. State and local
 
 
2,042
 
 
 
1,205
 
 
 
920
 


Foreign
 
 
(1,930
)
 
 
1,386
 
 
 
(78
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
4,552
 
 
 
18,057
 
 
 
7,135
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
41,454
 
 
$
39,689
 
 
$
10,970
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





Income tax expense relating to a discontinued operation was $1,659,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2009.


The following schedule reconciles the differences between the U.S. federal income taxes at the
U.S. statutory rate to our income tax expense (dollars in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Expected expense at U.S. Statutory rate of 35%
 
$
49,591
 
 
$
40,311
 
 
$
14,610
 


Change resulting from:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


State income tax expense, net of federal income tax benefit
 
 
3,225
 
 
 
2,386
 
 
 
960
 


Audits and adjustments, net
 
 
(665
)
 
 
(173
)
 
 
(267
)


Change in valuation allowance
 
 
(1,643
)
 
 
(392
)
 
 
386
 


Foreign income taxed at different rates
 
 
(2,136
)
 
 
(2,453
)
 
 
(230
)


Reorganization/recapitalization of foreign operations
 
 
(7,580
)
 
 
(1,611
)
 
 
(2,141
)


True-up of foreign deferred tax assets
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(1,224
)


Non-deductible compensation
 
 
512
 
 
 
737
 
 
 
(302
)


Other, net
 
 
150
 
 
 
884
 
 
 
(822
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Income tax expense
 
$
41,454
 
 
$
39,689
 
 
$
10,970
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Effective tax rate
 
 
29.3
%
 
 
34.5
%
 
 
26.3
%





The total income tax expense in 2011 includes net U.S. benefits of $8,637,000 primarily
related to the recognition of foreign tax credits upon the reorganization of certain of our foreign
operations in the fourth quarter and to other tax matters. The total income tax expense in 2010
includes a net U.S. benefit of $1,611,000 related to the recapitalization of one of our foreign
operations. The total


 

61



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



income tax expense in 2009 includes the recognition of certain tax benefits,
including a net U.S. tax benefit of $2,141,000 related to the recapitalization of one of our foreign
operations, $1,544,000 related primarily to the true-up of foreign tax credits resulting from the
filing of our 2008 U.S. federal tax return and the recognition of certain tax benefits resulting
from the settlement of audits and a $1,224,000 tax benefit related to the true-up of certain
foreign tax deferred items.

For foreign entities not treated as branches for U.S. tax purposes, we do not provide for U.S.
income taxes on the undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries as these earnings are reinvested
and, in the opinion of management, will continue to be reinvested indefinitely outside of the U.S.
The undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are deemed to be indefinitely invested
outside of the U.S. were approximately $43,100,000 at December 31, 2011. It is not practicable to
determine the unrecognized deferred tax liability on those earnings.


The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in
thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 




Deferred tax assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles
 
$
70,922
 
 
$
78,249
 


Foreign tax credit carryforwards
 
 
16,055
 
 
 
9,116
 


Net operating loss carryforwards
 
 
11,186
 
 
 
11,704
 


Miscellaneous accruals
 
 
8,738
 
 
 
10,985
 


Allowance for doubtful accounts and returns
 
 
6,105
 
 
 
5,965
 


Stock-based compensation
 
 
3,362
 
 
 
2,864
 


Write-downs of inventories
 
 
1,848
 
 
 
1,993
 


Deferred revenue
 
 
1,544
 
 
 
800
 


Trade credits
 
 
1,376
 
 
 
5,555
 


Accrued vacation and other payroll liabilities
 
 
819
 
 
 
1,628
 


Depreciation allowance carryforwards
 
 
556
 
 
 
770
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Gross deferred tax assets
 
 
122,511
 
 
 
129,629
 


Valuation allowance
 
 
(18,901
)
 
 
(20,764
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total deferred tax assets
 
 
103,610
 
 
 
108,865
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Deferred tax liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Depreciation and amortization
 
 
(16,011
)
 
 
(14,137
)


Prepaid expenses
 
 
(530
)
 
 
(522
)


Other, net
 
 
(140
)
 
 
(2,138
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total deferred tax liabilities
 
 
(16,681
)
 
 
(16,797
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net deferred tax assets
 
$
86,929
 
 
$
92,068
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 






The net current and non-current portions of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows
(in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 




Net current deferred tax asset
 
$
17,344
 
 
$
23,283
 


Net non-current deferred tax asset
 
 
69,585
 
 
 
68,785
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net deferred tax asset
 
$
86,929
 
 
$
92,068
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 





As of December 31, 2011, we have U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of
$1,294,000 that will expire between 2012 and 2032. We also have NOLs from various non-U.S.
jurisdictions of $41,572,000. While the majority of the non-U.S. NOLs has no expiration date,
$1,063,000 will fully expire in 2017.

On the basis of currently available information, we have provided valuation allowances for
certain of our deferred tax assets where we believe it is more likely than not that the related tax
benefits will not be realized. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our valuation allowances totaled
$18,901,000 and $20,764,000, respectively, representing certain U.S. state NOLs, non-U.S. NOLs,
foreign depreciation allowances and foreign tax credits. In the future, if we determine that
additional realization of these deferred tax assets is more likely than not, then the reversal of
the related valuation allowance will reduce income tax expense. Changes that occur after
acquisition date in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties resulting
from a business combination will generally affect income tax expense.

 


62



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


We believe it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be
generated as a result of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies, together with the tax
effects of deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover our remaining deferred tax
assets. In the future, if we determine that realization of the remaining deferred tax asset and
the availability of certain previously paid taxes to be refunded are not more likely than not, we
will need to increase our valuation allowance and record additional income tax expense.


The following table summarizes the change in the valuation allowance (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 




Valuation allowance at beginning of year
 
$
20,764
 
 
$
21,943
 


Decreases in income tax expense
 
 
(1,643
)
 
 
(392
)


Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
(220
)
 
 
(787
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Valuation allowance at end of year
 
$
18,901
 
 
$
20,764
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 





A net tax benefit of $1,351,000 related to the exercise of employee stock options and other
employee stock programs was applied to stockholders’ equity during the year ended December 31,
2011. A net tax shortfall of $317,000 and $6,712,000, respectively, related to the exercise of
employee stock options and other employee stock programs was applied against stockholders’ equity
during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Various taxing jurisdictions are examining our tax returns for certain tax years. Although
the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes the ultimate
resolution of these examinations will not result in a material adverse effect to our financial
position or results of operations.

As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had approximately $5,052,000 and $6,013,000,
respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits. Of these amounts, approximately $477,000 and $425,000,
respectively, relate to accrued interest. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, is as follows (in thousands):






 
 
 
 
 





Balance at December 31, 2010
 
$
5,588
 


Subtractions for tax positions in prior periods
 
 
(33
)


Additions for tax positions in current period
 
 
938
 


Subtractions due to foreign currency translation
 
 
(38
)


Subtractions due to audit settlements and statute expirations
 
 
(1,880
)


 
 
 
 


Balance at December 31, 2011
 
$
4,575
 


 
 
 
 





Our policy is to classify interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions as a
component of income tax expense in our consolidated statements of operations.

As of December 31, 2011, if recognized, $4,739,000 of the total liability associated with
uncertain tax positions of $5,052,000 would affect our effective tax rate. The remaining $313,000
balance arose from business combinations that, if recognized, ultimately would be recorded as an
adjustment to an indemnification receivable with no effect on our effective tax rate. We do not
believe there will be any changes over the next 12 months that would have a material effect on
our effective tax rate.

Several of our subsidiaries are currently under audit for tax years 2003 through 2010. It is
reasonably possible that the examination phase of these audits may conclude in the next 12 months
and that the related unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions may change, potentially
having a material effect on our effective tax rate. However, based on the status of the various
examinations in multiple jurisdictions, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes
cannot be made at this time.

We, including our subsidiaries, file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and
many state and local and non-U.S. jurisdictions. In the U.S., federal income tax returns for 2007
through 2010 remain open to examination. For U.S. state and local taxes as well as in non-U.S.
jurisdictions, the statute of limitations generally varies between three and ten years.

 


63



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(11) Stock-Based Compensation



We recorded the following pre-tax amounts in selling and administrative expenses for
stock-based compensation, by operating segment, in our consolidated financial statements (in
thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




North America
 
$
5,779
 
 
$
5,264
 
 
$
5,466
 


EMEA
 
 
1,908
 
 
 
1,512
 
 
 
2,137
 


APAC
 
 
232
 
 
 
181
 
 
 
161
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total Consolidated
 
$
7,919
 
 
$
6,957
 
 
$
7,764
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





Company Plan

On October 1, 2007, Insight’s Board of Directors approved the 2007 Omnibus Plan (the “2007
Plan”), and the 2007 Plan became effective when it was approved by Insight’s stockholders at the
annual meeting on November 12, 2007. On August 12, 2008, the 2007 Plan was amended to clarify
certain provisions relating to forfeiture restrictions and grants of discretionary awards to
non-employee directors. On May 18, 2011, Insight’s stockholders approved the Company’s Amended
2007 Omnibus Plan (“the Amended 2007 Plan”) to, among other changes, increase the number of shares
of common stock authorized to be issued thereunder by 3,000,000 shares to a total of 7,250,000
shares. The Amended 2007 Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of Insight’s Board of
Directors, and, except as provided below, the Compensation Committee has the exclusive authority to
administer the Amended 2007 Plan, including the power to determine eligibility, the types of awards
to be granted, the price and the timing of awards. Under the Amended 2007 Plan, the Compensation
Committee may delegate some of its authority to our Chief Executive Officer to grant awards to
individuals other than individuals who are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Teammates, officers and members of the Board
of Directors are eligible for awards under the Amended 2007 Plan, and consultants and independent
contractors are also eligible if they provide bona fide services that are not related to capital
raising or promoting or maintaining a market for the Company’s stock. The Amended 2007 Plan allows
for awards of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, RSUs, performance awards as
well as grants of cash awards. As of December 31, 2011, of the 7,250,000 shares of stock reserved
for awards issued under the Amended 2007 Plan, 4,679,468 shares of stock were available for grant.

Accounting for Stock Options


The following table summarizes our stock option activity during the year ended December 31,
2011:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted
 
 
Aggregate
 
 
Remaining
 


 
 
Number
 
 
Average
 
 
Intrinsic Value
 
 
Contractual
 


 
 
Outstanding
 
 
Exercise Price
 
 
(in-the-money options)
 
 
Life (in years)
 




Outstanding at the beginning
of year
 
 
243,452
 
 
$
17.99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Granted
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Exercised
 
 
(2,666
)
 
 
14.12
 
 
$
10,442
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Forfeited or expired
 
 
(40,786
)
 
 
19.31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Outstanding at the end of year
 
 
200,000
 
 
 
17.77
 
 
$
—
 
 
 
0.96
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Exercisable at the end of year
 
 
200,000
 
 
 
17.77
 
 
$
—
 
 
 
0.96
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Vested and expected to vest
 
 
200,000
 
 
 
17.77
 
 
$
—
 
 
 
0.96
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pre-tax intrinsic
value, based on our closing stock price of $15.29 as of December 31, 2011, which would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised options and sold the underlying
shares on that date. Options exercisable as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 had no aggregate
intrinsic value because there were no in-the-money options.

As of December 31, 2011, all of the 200,000 outstanding options are exercisable with an
exercise price of $17.77 and a remaining contractual life of 0.96 years. Prior to January 1, 2011,
all stock options had vested and total compensation cost related to all previously granted stock
options had been recognized. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and
2009, we recorded stock-based compensation expense related to stock options, net of
forfeitures, of $354,000 and $368,000, respectively.


 


64



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


Accounting for Restricted Stock

 We issue RSUs as incentives to certain officers and teammates. We recognize
compensation expense associated with the issuance of such RSUs over the vesting period for each
respective RSU. The total compensation expense associated with restricted stock represents the
value based upon the number of RSUs awarded multiplied by the closing price of our common stock on
the date of grant, adjusted for our estimate of forfeitures. The number of RSUs ultimately awarded
under the performance-based RSUs varies based on whether we achieve certain financial results. We
record compensation expense each period based on our estimate of the most probable number of RSUs
that will be issued under the grants of performance-based RSUs and the market price of our common
stock on the grant date. Recipients of RSUs do not have voting or dividend rights until the
vesting conditions are satisfied and shares are released.

For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded stock-based compensation
expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to RSUs of $7,919,000, $6,603,000 and $7,396,000,
respectively. As of December 31, 2011, total compensation cost related to nonvested RSUs not yet
recognized is $12,423,000, which is expected to be recognized over the next 1.21 years on a
weighted-average basis.

On January 23, 2008, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved a special
long-term incentive award to three executive officers that provided for the award of RSUs based
upon achievement of specific stock price hurdles within specific timeframes over a three-year
period from 2009 — 2011. On February 19, 2009, the three executives agreed to forfeit the awards,
resulting in the termination of the awards. Accordingly, no shares were, or will be, issued under
these awards. A non-cash charge of $5,478,000 as a result of the cancellation of these awards is
included in selling and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2009.


The following table summarizes our RSU activity, during the year ended December 31, 2011:





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted Average
 
 
 
 


 
 
Number
 
 
Grant Date Fair Value
 
 
Fair Value
 




Nonvested at the beginning of year
 
 
1,599,376
 
 
$
9.99
 
 
 
 
 


Granted
 
 
730,828
 
 
$
17.70
 
 
 
 
 


Vested, including shares withheld
to cover taxes
 
 
(643,463
)
 
$
9.13
 
 
$
11,174,009
(a)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Forfeited
 
 
(217,008
)
 
$
11.89
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Nonvested at the end of year
 
 
1,469,733
 
 
$
13.93
 
 
$
22,472,218
(b)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Expected to vest
 
 
1,357,370
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
20,754,187
(b)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 












(a)
 
The fair value of vested RSUs represents the total pre-tax fair value, based on
the closing stock price on the day of vesting, which would have been received by holders of
RSUs had all such holders sold their underlying shares on that date. The aggregate
intrinsic value for vested shares of restricted common stock and RSUs during 2010 and 2009
was $6,339,196 and $2,785,111, respectively.

 

(b)
 
The aggregate fair value of the nonvested RSUs and the RSUs expected to vest
represents the total pre-tax fair value, based on our closing stock price of $15.29 as of
December 31, 2011, which would have been received by holders of RSUs had all such holders
sold their underlying shares on that date.




During the three years ended December 31, 2011, the RSUs that vested for teammates in the
United States were net-share settled such that we withheld shares with value equivalent to the
teammates’ minimum statutory United States tax obligation for the applicable income and other
employment taxes and remitted the equivalent cash amount to the appropriate taxing authorities.
The total shares withheld during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 of 154,473,
106,876 and 126,986, respectively, were based on the value of the RSUs on their vesting dates as
determined by our closing stock price on such dates. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, total payments for the employees’ tax obligations to the taxing authorities were
$2,697,000, $1,429,000 and $691,000, respectively, and are reflected as a financing activity within
the consolidated statements of cash flows. These net-share settlements had the effect of
repurchases of our common stock as they reduced the number of shares that would have otherwise been
issued as a result of the vesting and did not represent an expense to us.

 


65



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(12) Derivative Financial Instruments


We use derivatives to partially offset our exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign
currencies. We do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. Derivatives are
recorded at fair value on the balance sheet and gains or losses resulting from changes in fair
value of the derivative are recorded currently in income. The Company does not designate its
hedges for hedge accounting.

We use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain non-functional currency assets and
liabilities from changes in exchange rate movements. Our non-functional currency assets and
liabilities are primarily related to foreign currency denominated payables, receivables, and cash
balances. The foreign currency forward contracts, carried at fair value, typically have a maturity
of one month or less. We currently enter into approximately five foreign exchange forward
contracts per month with an average notional value of $8,367,000 and an average maturity of
approximately one week.

The counterparties associated with our foreign exchange forward contracts are large credit
worthy commercial banks. The derivatives transacted with these institutions are short in duration
and, therefore, we do not consider counterparty concentration and non-performance to be material
risks.


The following table summarizes our derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2011
and 2010 (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Asset
 
 
Liability
 
 
Asset
 
 
Liability
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivatives
 
 
Derivatives
 
 
Derivatives
 
 
Derivatives
 


 
 
Balance Sheet Location
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Fair Value
 




Derivatives not
designated as
hedging
instruments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Foreign
exchange
forward
contracts
 
Other current assets
 
$
20
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
28
 
 
$
—
 


Foreign
exchange forward contracts
 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
 
 
—
 
 
 
114
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
91
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total derivatives
not designated as
hedging instruments
 
 
 
 
 
$
20
 
 
$
114
 
 
$
28
 
 
$
91
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






The following table summarizes the effect of our derivative financial instruments on our
results of operations during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Derivatives Not Designated as
 
Location of (Gain) Loss Recognized in
 
 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Recognized
 


Heading Instruments
 
Earnings on Derivatives
 
 
in Earnings on Derivatives
 


 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 


 
 
 
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Foreign exchange forward contracts
 
Net foreign currency exchange (gain) loss
 
$
(951
)
 
$
(1,046
)
 
$
2,702
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total
 
 
 
 
 
$
(951
)
 
$
(1,046
)
 
$
2,702
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 


66



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(13) Fair Value Measurements



The following table summarizes the valuation of our financial instruments by the following
three categories as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):

Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Observable market based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-qualified
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-qualified
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign
 
 
Deferred
 
 
Foreign
 
 
Deferred
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Exchange
 
 
Compensation Plan
 
 
Exchange
 
 
Compensation Plan
 


Balance Sheet Classification
 
 
Derivatives
 
 
Investments
 
 
Derivatives
 
 
Investments
 




Other current assets
 
Level 1
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 


 
 
Level 2
 
 
20
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
28
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
Level 3
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
$
20
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
28
 
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Other assets
 
Level 1
 
$
—
 
 
$
1,182
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
1,245
 


 
 
Level 2
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
Level 3
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
1,182
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
1,245
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Accrued expenses and other current
liabilities
 
Level 1
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 


 
 
Level 2
 
 
114
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
91
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
Level 3
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
$
114
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
91
 
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





Foreign Exchange Derivatives

We have elected to use the income approach to value the foreign exchange derivatives, using
observable Level 2 market expectations at the measurement date and standard valuation techniques to
convert future amounts to a single present value amount assuming that participants are motivated,
but not compelled, to transact. Level 2 inputs for the valuations are limited to quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities in active markets and inputs other than quoted prices that are
observable for the asset or liability (specifically LIBOR rates, foreign exchange rates, and
foreign exchange forward points). Mid-market pricing is used as a practical expedient for fair
value measurements. Fair value measurement of an asset or liability must reflect the
nonperformance risk of the entity and the counterparty. Therefore, the impact of the
counterparty’s creditworthiness when in an asset position and the Company’s creditworthiness when
in a liability position has also been factored into the fair value measurement of the derivative
instruments and did not have a material impact on the fair value of these derivative instruments.
Both the counterparty and the Company are expected to continue to perform under the contractual
terms of the instruments.

Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan Investments

The assets of the non-qualified deferred compensation plan (discussed in Note 14) are set up
in a Rabbi Trust. They represent money market funds that are carried at fair value, based on
quoted market prices, and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.

As of December 31, 2011, we have no non-financial assets or liabilities that are measured and
recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, and our other financial assets or liabilities
generally consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued
expenses and other current liabilities. The estimated fair values of our cash and cash equivalents
is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. The fair value of the
other financial assets and liabilities is based on the value that would be received or paid in an
orderly transaction between market participants and approximates the carrying value due to their
nature and short duration.

 


67



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(14) Benefit Plans


We have adopted a defined contribution benefit plan (the “Defined Contribution Plan”) which
complies with section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. On March 7, 2009, the Company suspended
discretionary matching contributions to the Defined Contribution Plan. Effective for pay periods
commencing on and after January 1, 2011, the Company reinstated the discretionary match to all
participants who elect 401(k) contributions pursuant to the Plan. The discretionary match provided
to participants is equivalent to 25% of the teammates’ pre-tax contributions up to a maximum of 6%
of eligible compensation per pay period. Contribution expense under this plan was $2,159,000, $0
and $380,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

In November 2007, we established the Insight Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the
“Deferred Compensation Plan”) with an effective date of January 1, 2008. The Deferred Compensation
Plan permits a select group of “management or highly compensated employees” as defined by the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, to voluntarily defer receipt of
compensation and earn a rate of return on their deferred amounts based on their selection from a
variety of independently managed funds. All amounts in this plan are employee contributions, and
all gains or losses on amounts held in the Deferred Compensation Plan are fully allocable to plan
participants. We do not provide a guaranteed rate of return on these deferred amounts nor do we
make any contributions to the Deferred Compensation Plan. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
assets held in the Deferred Compensation Plan were $1,182,000 and $1,245,000, respectively.
Liabilities related to the Deferred Compensation Plan as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were
$908,000 and $846,000, respectively.


(15) Share Repurchase Program


On May 26, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up
to $50,000,000 of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased
2,897,493 shares of our common stock on the open market at an average price of $17.26 per share,
which represented the full amount authorized under the repurchase program. All shares repurchased
were retired.


(16) Commitments and Contingencies


Contractual

We have committed to pay the Arizona Cardinals an aggregate amount of approximately $2,933,000
through February 2014 for advertising and marketing events at the University of Phoenix Stadium.

In the ordinary course of business, we issue performance bonds to secure our performance under
certain contracts or state tax requirements. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately
$21,904,000 of performance bonds outstanding. These bonds are issued on our behalf by a surety
company on an unsecured basis; however, if the surety company is ever required to pay out under the
bonds, we have contractually agreed to reimburse the surety company.

Employment Contracts and Severance Plans

We have employment contracts with, and plans covering, certain officers and management
teammates under which severance payments would become payable in the event of specified
terminations without cause or terminations under certain circumstances after a change in control.
In addition, vesting of stock-based compensation would accelerate following a change in control.
If severance payments under the current employment agreements or plan payments were to become
payable, the severance payments would generally range from three to twenty-four months of salary.

Indemnifications

From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements
under which we agree to indemnify either our clients or third-party service providers from certain
losses incurred relating to services performed on our behalf or for losses arising from defined
events, which may include litigation or claims relating to past performance. These arrangements
include, but are not limited to, the indemnification of our clients for certain claims arising out
of our performance under our sales contracts, the indemnification of our landlords for certain
claims arising from our use of leased facilities and the indemnification of the lenders that
provide our credit facilities for certain claims arising from their extension of credit to us.
Such indemnification obligations may not be subject to maximum loss clauses.

 


68



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


Management believes that payments, if any, related to these indemnifications are not probable
at December 31, 2011. Accordingly, we have not accrued any liabilities related to such
indemnifications in our consolidated financial statements.

We have entered into separate indemnification agreements with our executive officers and with
each of our directors. These agreements require us, among other requirements, to indemnify such
officers and directors against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments and settlements paid
by such individuals in connection with any action arising out of such individuals’ status or
service as our executive officers or directors (subject to exceptions such as where the individuals
failed to act in good faith or in a manner the individuals reasonably believed to be in or not
opposed to the best interests of the Company) and to advance expenses when such individuals may be
entitled to indemnification by us. Other than the pending purported class action litigation
discussed under “Legal Proceedings” below, there are no pending legal proceedings that involve the
indemnification of any of the Company’s directors or officers.

Legal Proceedings

We are party to various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business,
including preference payment claims asserted in client bankruptcy proceedings, indemnification
claims, claims of alleged infringement of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual
property rights, claims of alleged non-compliance with contract provisions and claims related to
alleged violations of laws and regulations. Many of these proceeding are at preliminary stages,
and many of these proceedings seek an indeterminate amount of damages. We regularly evaluate the
status of the legal proceedings in which we are involved to assess whether a loss is probable or
there is a reasonable possibility that a loss, or an additional loss, may have been incurred and
determine if accruals are appropriate. If accruals are not appropriate, we further evaluate each
legal proceeding to assess whether an estimate of possible loss or range of possible loss can be
made for disclosure.

Beginning in March 2009, three purported class action lawsuits were filed in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Arizona against us and certain of our current and former directors and
officers on behalf of purchasers of our securities during the period April 22, 2004 to February 6,
2009. The second amended complaint (the only remaining complaint then on file) of the lead
plaintiff was dismissed with prejudice in November 2010, and another purported class member
plaintiff has appealed the order of dismissal with prejudice to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit. We have tendered a claim to our D&O liability insurance carriers, and our carriers
have acknowledged their obligations under these policies subject to a reservation of rights. Based
on the information available at this time, the Company is not able to estimate the possible loss or
range of loss for the purported class action.

In August 2010, in connection with an investigation being conducted by the United States
Department of Justice (the “DOJ”), our subsidiary, Calence, LLC, received a subpoena from the
Office of the Inspector General of the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC OIG”) requesting
documents and information related to the expenditure, by the Universal Service Administration
Company, of funds under the E-Rate program. The E-Rate program provides schools and libraries with
discounts to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access and related hardware and
software. We are cooperating with the DOJ and FCC OIG and have responded to the subpoena. Based
on the information available at this time, the Company is not able to estimate what the possible
loss or range of loss might be, if any. The Company is pursuing its rights under the Calence
acquisition agreements to indemnification for losses that may arise out of or result from this
matter, including our fees and expenses for responding to the subpoena.

In September 2011, Insight Public Sector, Inc. learned that it had been named as a defendant
in a qui tam lawsuit alleging violations of the Trade Agreements Act and the False Claims Act.
This case, designated United States ex rel. Sandager v. Hewlett-Packard et al., was originally
filed under seal in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota in July 2008.
In September 2009, the United States declined to intervene in the matter on behalf of the private
qui tam plaintiff (the relator) and take the lead in the litigation, but that decision should not
be viewed as a final assessment by the United States of the merits of this qui tam action. The
amended complaint was filed in September 2011 and was served on Insight Public Sector, Inc. on
September 26, 2011. Insight Public Sector, Inc. is one of 21 named defendants in the amended
complaint. The plaintiff dropped 13 of the original 34 defendants in filing the amended complaint.
The amended complaint seeks various remedies including damages, statutory penalties and an award
to the relator under the False Claims Act. The Company intends to defend vigorously against this
lawsuit and in January 2012 joined in motions to dismiss the lawsuit. Based on the information
available at this time, the Company is not able to estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if
any.

 


69



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


Aside from the matters discussed above, the Company is not involved in any pending or
threatened legal proceedings that it believes could reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Contingencies Related to Third-Party Review

From time to time, we are subject to potential claims and assessments from third parties. We
are also subject to various governmental, client and vendor audits. We continually assess whether
or not such claims have merit and warrant accrual. Where appropriate, we accrue estimates of
anticipated liabilities in the consolidated financial statements. Such estimates are subject to
change and may affect our results of operations and our cash flows.


(17) Supplemental Financial Information



A summary of additions and deductions related to the allowances for doubtful accounts
receivable for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 follows (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Balance at
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Beginning
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance at
 


 
 
of Year
 
 
Additions
 
 
Deductions
 
 
End of Year
 




Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Year ended December 31, 2011
 
$
17,540
 
 
$
4,267
 
 
$
(3,004
)
 
$
18,803
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Year ended December 31, 2010
 
$
22,364
 
 
$
1,626
 
 
$
(6,450
)
 
$
17,540
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Year ended December 31, 2009
 
$
20,156
 
 
$
7,377
 
 
$
(5,169
)
 
$
22,364
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






(18) Segment and Geographic Information


We operate in three reportable geographic operating segments: North America; EMEA; and APAC.
Currently, our offerings in North America, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany include
IT hardware, software and services. Our offerings in the remainder of our EMEA segment and in APAC
are almost entirely software and select software-related services. Net sales by product or service
type for North America, EMEA and APAC were as follows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009 (in thousands):






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
North America
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


Sales Mix
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Hardware
 
$
2,334,257
 
 
$
2,131,815
 
 
$
1,689,526
 


Software
 
 
1,095,532
 
 
 
1,000,418
 
 
 
916,876
 


Services
 
 
242,703
 
 
 
207,929
 
 
 
234,384
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
3,672,492
 
 
$
3,340,162
 
 
$
2,840,786
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
EMEA
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


Sales Mix
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Hardware
 
$
438,171
 
 
$
427,600
 
 
$
388,264
 


Software
 
 
936,543
 
 
 
863,720
 
 
 
749,301
 


Services
 
 
23,707
 
 
 
19,229
 
 
 
14,184
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,398,421
 
 
$
1,310,549
 
 
$
1,151,749
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
APAC
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


Sales Mix
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




Hardware
 
$
1,647
 
 
$
1,002
 
 
$
1,025
 


Software
 
 
208,200
 
 
 
153,966
 
 
 
141,120
 


Services
 
 
6,468
 
 
 
4,251
 
 
 
2,225
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
216,315
 
 
$
159,219
 
 
$
144,370
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 


70



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


The method for determining what information regarding operating segments, products and
services, geographic areas of operation and major clients to report is based upon the “management
approach,” or the way that management
organizes the operating segments within a company, for which separate financial information is
evaluated regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) in deciding how to allocate
resources. Our CODM is our Chief Executive Officer.

All significant intercompany transactions are eliminated upon consolidation, and there are no
differences between the accounting policies used to measure profit and loss for our segments or on
a consolidated basis. Net sales are defined as net sales to external clients. None of our clients
exceeded ten percent of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011.

A portion of our operating segments’ selling and administrative expenses arise from shared
services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to them in order to realize
economies of scale and to use resources efficiently. These expenses, collectively identified as
corporate charges, include senior management expenses, internal audit, legal, tax, insurance
services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Charges are allocated to our
operating segments, and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we considered to be a
reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the
operating segments.


The tables below present information about our reportable operating segments as of and for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 


 
 
North
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
America
 
 
EMEA
 
 
APAC
 
 
Consolidated
 




Net sales
 
$
3,672,492
 
 
$
1,398,421
 
 
$
216,315
 
 
$
5,287,228
 


Costs of goods sold
 
 
3,195,716
 
 
 
1,200,348
 
 
 
182,007
 
 
 
4,578,071
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Gross profit
 
 
476,776
 
 
 
198,073
 
 
 
34,308
 
 
 
709,157
 


Operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Selling and administrative expenses
 
 
366,811
 
 
 
165,262
 
 
 
24,616
 
 
 
556,689
 


Severance and restructuring expenses
 
 
2,380
 
 
 
2,705
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
5,085
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations
 
$
107,585
 
 
$
30,106
 
 
$
9,692
 
 
$
147,383
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total assets
 
$
1,536,690
 
 
$
535,116
 
 
$
128,028
 
 
$
2,199,834
*


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 


 
 
North
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
America
 
 
EMEA
 
 
APAC
 
 
Consolidated
 




Net sales
 
$
3,340,162
 
 
$
1,310,549
 
 
$
159,219
 
 
$
4,809,930
 


Costs of goods sold
 
 
2,898,094
 
 
 
1,134,531
 
 
 
131,208
 
 
 
4,163,833
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Gross profit
 
 
442,068
 
 
 
176,018
 
 
 
28,011
 
 
 
646,097
 


Operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Selling and administrative expenses
 
 
348,842
 
 
 
149,945
 
 
 
20,278
 
 
 
519,065
 


Severance and restructuring expenses
 
 
2,003
 
 
 
953
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
2,956
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations
 
$
91,223
 
 
$
25,120
 
 
$
7,733
 
 
$
124,076
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total assets
 
$
1,509,928
 
 
$
522,752
 
 
$
99,782
 
 
$
2,132,462
*


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 


 
 
North
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
America
 
 
EMEA
 
 
APAC
 
 
Consolidated
 




Net sales
 
$
2,840,786
 
 
$
1,151,749
 
 
$
144,370
 
 
$
4,136,905
 


Costs of goods sold
 
 
2,451,069
 
 
 
992,640
 
 
 
124,582
 
 
 
3,568,291
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Gross profit
 
 
389,717
 
 
 
159,109
 
 
 
19,788
 
 
 
568,614
 


Operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Selling and administrative expenses
 
 
346,306
 
 
 
140,380
 
 
 
15,416
 
 
 
502,102
 


Severance and restructuring expenses
 
 
10,327
 
 
 
2,979
 
 
 
302
 
 
 
13,608
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations
 
$
33,084
 
 
$
15,750
 
 
$
4,070
 
 
$
52,904
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total assets
 
$
1,358,096
 
 
$
462,095
 
 
$
58,843
 
 
$
1,879,034
*


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 












*
 
Consolidated total assets do not reflect intercompany eliminations and corporate assets
of $342,223,000, $329,179,000 and $275,713,000 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.




 


71



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



The following is a summary of our geographic net sales and long-lived assets, consisting of
property and equipment, net (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
United States
 
 
Foreign
 
 
Total
 




2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net sales
 
$
3,447,541
 
 
$
1,839,687
 
 
$
5,287,228
 


Total long-lived assets
 
$
105,338
 
 
$
35,367
 
 
$
140,705
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net sales
 
$
3,141,159
 
 
$
1,668,771
 
 
$
4,809,930
 


Total long-lived assets
 
$
108,145
 
 
$
33,254
 
 
$
141,399
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net sales
 
$
2,681,043
 
 
$
1,455,862
 
 
$
4,136,905
 


Total long-lived assets
 
$
117,186
 
 
$
32,917
 
 
$
150,103
 





Foreign net sales and total long-lived assets summarized above for 2011, 2010 and 2009 include
net sales and net property and equipment of $701,823,000 and $20,834,000; $661,966,000 and
$19,846,000; and $580,386,000 and $21,075,000, respectively, attributed to the United Kingdom. Net
sales by geographic area are presented by attributing net sales to external customers based on the
domicile of the selling location.


We recorded the following pre-tax amounts, by operating segment, for depreciation and
amortization, in the accompanying consolidated financial statements (in thousands):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 




North America
 
$
31,251
 
 
$
30,678
 
 
$
34,125
 


EMEA
 
 
7,071
 
 
 
6,598
 
 
 
6,420
 


APAC
 
 
817
 
 
 
737
 
 
 
618
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total
 
$
39,139
 
 
$
38,013
 
 
$
41,163
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






(19) Acquisition 


Effective October 1, 2011, we enhanced our professional services capabilities by acquiring
Ensynch, Incorporated (“Ensynch”), a leading professional services firm with multiple Microsoft
Gold competencies across the complete Microsoft solution set, including cloud migration and
management, for a cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $13,058,000 plus working capital
adjustments totaling approximately $711,000.

The total fair value of net assets acquired was approximately $4,403,000, including $2,680,000
of identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of customer relationships which are being
amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated economic life of six years.
Amortization expense is estimated to be approximately $708,000 in 2012, $518,000 in 2013 and
approximately $300,000 per year through 2017. The purchase price was allocated using the
information currently available, and we may adjust the purchase price allocation after obtaining
more information regarding, among other things, asset valuations, liabilities assumed and revisions
of preliminary estimates. Goodwill acquired approximated $9,783,000, which was recorded in our
North America operating segment. We believe that the synergies from combining Ensynch’s technical
skills with Insight’s sales engine will elevate our ability to provide clients with complete
software solutions to drive their success, which is the primary factor making up the goodwill
recognized. None of the goodwill is tax deductible.

We consolidated the results of operations for Ensynch beginning on the October 1, 2011
effective date of the acquisition. Our historical results would not have been materially affected
by the acquisition of Ensynch and, accordingly, we have not presented pro forma information as if
the acquisition had been completed at the beginning of each period presented in our statements of
operations.

 


72



Table of Contents


INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(20) Discontinued Operation 


During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded earnings from a discontinued operation of
$4,460,000, $2,801,000 net of tax, as a result of the favorable settlement on July 7, 2009 of an
arbitrated claim related to the sale of Direct Alliance, a former subsidiary that was sold on June
30, 2006. The amount recognized was net of payments to holders of 1,997,500 exercised stock
options of the former subsidiary and a broker success fee with respect to the settlement totaling
$540,000. In December 2009, we received a reimbursement of legal fees associated with the
arbitration settlement of $1,414,000. Such amount was recorded as a reduction of selling and
administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2009.


(21) Selected Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited)



The following table sets forth selected unaudited consolidated quarterly financial information
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands, except per share data):





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Quarters Ended
 


 
 
Dec. 31,
 
 
Sept. 30,
 
 
June 30,
 
 
Mar. 31,
 
 
Dec. 31,
 
 
Sept. 30,
 
 
June 30,
 
 
Mar. 31,
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2010
 
 
2010
 
 
2010
 




Net sales
 
$
1,360,353
 
 
$
1,238,019
 
 
$
1,468,960
 
 
$
1,219,896
 
 
$
1,339,199
 
 
$
1,169,197
 
 
$
1,266,913
 
 
$
1,034,621
 


Costs of goods sold
 
 
1,181,370
 
 
 
1,074,504
 
 
 
1,264,781
 
 
 
1,057,416
 
 
 
1,166,597
 
 
 
1,014,552
 
 
 
1,093,108
 
 
 
889,576
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Gross profit
 
 
178,983
 
 
 
163,515
 
 
 
204,179
 
 
 
162,480
 
 
 
172,602
 
 
 
154,645
 
 
 
173,805
 
 
 
145,045
 


Operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Selling and administrative expenses
 
 
136,131
 
 
 
135,071
 
 
 
146,386
 
 
 
139,101
 
 
 
134,013
 
 
 
129,511
 
 
 
127,830
 
 
 
127,711
 


Severance and restructuring
expenses
 
 
627
 
 
 
529
 
 
 
3,405
 
 
 
524
 
 
 
1,269
 
 
 
298
 
 
 
1,318
 
 
 
71
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations
 
 
42,225
 
 
 
27,915
 
 
 
54,388
 
 
 
22,855
 
 
 
37,320
 
 
 
24,836
 
 
 
44,657
 
 
 
17,263
 


Non-operating (income) expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Interest income
 
 
(392
)
 
 
(536
)
 
 
(400
)
 
 
(358
)
 
 
(247
)
 
 
(161
)
 
 
(179
)
 
 
(127
)


Interest expense
 
 
1,718
 
 
 
1,753
 
 
 
1,644
 
 
 
1,812
 
 
 
1,720
 
 
 
1,899
 
 
 
1,691
 
 
 
2,367
 


Net foreign currency exchange
(gain) loss
 
 
(605
)
 
 
633
 
 
 
(686
)
 
 
(478
)
 
 
(221
)
 
 
130
 
 
 
404
 
 
 
209
 


Other expense, net
 
 
349
 
 
 
451
 
 
 
383
 
 
 
406
 
 
 
320
 
 
 
348
 
 
 
403
 
 
 
346
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings before income taxes
 
 
41,155
 
 
 
25,614
 
 
 
53,447
 
 
 
21,473
 
 
 
35,748
 
 
 
22,620
 
 
 
42,338
 
 
 
14,468
 


Income tax expense
 
 
6,501
 
 
 
8,448
 
 
 
18,099
 
 
 
8,406
 
 
 
10,774
 
 
 
8,188
 
 
 
15,424
 
 
 
5,303
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings
 
$
34,654
 
 
$
17,166
 
 
$
35,348
 
 
$
13,067
 
 
$
24,974
 
 
$
14,432
 
 
$
26,914
 
 
$
9,165
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Basic
 
$
0.79
 
 
$
0.38
 
 
$
0.76
 
 
$
0.28
 
 
$
0.54
 
 
$
0.31
 
 
$
0.58
 
 
$
0.20
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Diluted
 
$
0.78
 
 
$
0.38
 
 
$
0.75
 
 
$
0.28
 
 
$
0.53
 
 
$
0.31
 
 
$
0.58
 
 
$
0.20
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






(22) Subsequent Event


Effective February 1, 2012, we acquired Inmac, a broad portfolio business-to-business hardware
reseller based in Frankfurt, Germany and Amsterdam, Netherlands servicing clients in Western
Europe. Inmac’s 2011 revenues were approximately $120.0 million. We believe that this acquisition
supports our strategic plan to expand hardware capabilities into key markets in our existing
European footprint. The combined organization will offer our clients a complete set of hardware,
software and services solutions in Germany and the Netherlands.

We are in the process of determining the fair value of net assets acquired, including
identifiable intangible assets, which will be recorded in our EMEA operating segment. We will
consolidate the results of operations for Inmac beginning on February 1, 2012, the effective date
of the acquisition. We do not believe that our historical results would have been materially
affected by the acquisition of Inmac.


 

73



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.












Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure



None.












Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures



(a) Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as such term is defined under Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)). Our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, our
management used the criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Management has
concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in COSO’s Internal Control — Integrated
Framework.

KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report, has issued an attestation report on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.

(b) Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined
in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2011
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

(c) Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the
Exchange Act). Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as of the end of the
period covered by this report, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as such term is defined under Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) and
determined that as of December 31, 2011 our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
the SEC’s rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

(d) Inherent Limitations of Disclosure Controls and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.












Item 9B.
 
Other Information



None.

 

74



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




PART III












Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance



The information required by this item can be found in our definitive Proxy Statement
relating to our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (our “Proxy Statement”) and is incorporated
herein by reference.












Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation



The information required by this item can be found in our Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.












Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters



The information required by this item can be found in our Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.












Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence



The information required by this item can be found in our Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.












Item 14.
 
Principal Accounting Fees and Services



The information required by this item can be found in our Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.




PART IV












Item 15.
 
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules



(a) Financial Statements and Schedules

The Consolidated Financial Statements of Insight Enterprises, Inc. and subsidiaries and the
related Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are filed herein as set forth
under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not
applicable, or the information is otherwise included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
notes thereto.

(b) Exhibits

The exhibits list in the Index to Exhibits immediately following the signature page is
incorporated herein by reference as the list of exhibits required as part of this report.

 

75



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.



 
 
 
 
 


 
INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
 
 

 
By /s/ Kenneth T. Lamneck
 
 

 
Kenneth T. Lamneck 
 

 
Chief Executive Officer 
 


Dated: February 23, 2012

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.





 
 
 
 
 


Signature
 
Title
 
Date


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




/s/ Kenneth T. Lamneck
 

 
President, Chief Executive Officer and 

 
February 23, 2012


Kenneth T. Lamneck

 
Director
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ Glynis A. Bryan
 

 
Chief Financial Officer 

 
February 23, 2012


Glynis A. Bryan

 
(principal financial officer)
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ David C. Olsen
 

 
Corporate Controller 

 
February 23, 2012


David C. Olsen

 
(principal accounting officer)
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ Timothy A. Crown*
 

 
Chairman of the Board 

 
February 23, 2012


Timothy A. Crown
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 
Director 
 
 


Richard E. Allen
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ Bennett Dorrance*
 

 
Director 

 
February 23, 2012


Bennett Dorrance
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ Michael M. Fisher*
 

 
Director 

 
February 23, 2012


Michael M. Fisher
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ Larry A. Gunning*
 

 
Director 

 
February 23, 2012


Larry A. Gunning
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ Anthony A. Ibargüen*
 

 
Director 

 
February 23, 2012


Anthony A. Ibargüen
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ Robertson C. Jones*
 

 
Director 

 
February 23, 2012


Robertson C. Jones
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


/s/ Kathleen S. Pushor*
 

 
Director 

 
February 23, 2012


Kathleen S. Pushor
 
 
 
 








 
 
 
 
 





* By:

 
/s/ Steven R. Andrews
 

 
 


 

 
Steven R. Andrews, Attorney in Fact
 
 




 

76



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.




EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011
Commission File No. 0-25092

(Unless otherwise noted, exhibits are filed herewith.)





 
 
 
 
 


Exhibit
 
 
 


No.
 
Description




3.1

 
—

 
Composite Certificate of Incorporation of
Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2005).


 
 
 
 
 


3.2

 
—

 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of our
current report on Form 8-K filed on January 14,
2008).


 
 
 
 
 


4.1

 
—

 
Specimen Common Stock Certificate (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of our Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-86142) declared
effective January 24, 1995).


 
 
 
 
 


10.1 (1)

 
—

 
Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our annual report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006).


 
 
 
 
 


10.2 (2)

 
—

 
Amended Insight Enterprises, Inc. 2007 Omnibus
Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex A to our
Proxy Statement filed on April 4, 2011).


 
 
 
 
 


10.3 (2)

 
—

 
Executive Service Agreement between Insight
Direct (UK) Limited and Stuart Fenton dated May 18,
2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
our Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2010).


 
 
 
 
 


10.4 (2)

 
—

 
Executive Management Separation Plan effective as
of January 1, 2008 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.5 for our quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2008).


 
 
 
 
 


10.5 (2)

 
—

 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between
Insight Enterprises, Inc. and Glynis A. Bryan dated
as of January 1, 2009 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 of our current report on Form 8-K filed
January 7, 2009).


 
 
 
 
 


10.6 (2)

 
—

 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between
Insight Enterprises, Inc. and Steven R. Andrews
dated as of January 1, 2009 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 of our current report on
Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2009).


 
 
 
 
 


10.7 (2)

 
—

 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between
Insight Enterprises, Inc. and Stephen A. Speidel
dated as of January 1, 2009 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.7 of our current report on
Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2009).


 
 
 
 
 


10.8 (2)

 
—

 
Release and Severance Agreement by and between
Insight Enterprises, Inc. and Stephen A. Speidel
dated as of September 1, 2011 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011).


 
 
 
 
 


10.9 (2)

 
—

 
Letter Agreement with Anthony A. Ibargüen, dated
as of September 7, 2009 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.2 of our current report on Form 8-K
filed on September 8, 2009).


 
 
 
 
 


10.10 (2)

 
—

 
Executive Employment Agreement between Insight
Enterprises, Inc. and Kenneth T. Lamneck, dated as
of December 14, 2009 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.24 of our annual report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2009).


 
 
 
 
 


10.11 (2)

 
—

 
Employment Agreement between Insight Enterprises,
Inc. and David C. Olsen, dated as of June 15, 2010
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of our
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2010).


 
 
 
 
 


10.12 (2)

 
—

 
Employment Agreement between Insight Enterprises,
Inc. and Michael P. Guggemos, dated as of November
1, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16
of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010).


 
 
 
 
 


10.13 (2)

 
—

 
Offer of employment letter to Michael P.
Guggemos, dated September 28, 2010 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.17 of our annual report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).


 
 
 
 
 


10.14 (2)

 
—

 
Employment Agreement between Insight Enterprises,
Inc. and Mary E. Sculley, dated as of April 11, 2011
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2011).


 
 
 
 
 


10.15 (2)

 
—

 
Offer of employment letter to Mary E. Sculley,
dated March 28, 2011 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2011).


 
 
 
 
 


10.16 (2)

 
—

 
Employment Agreement between Insight Enterprises,
Inc. and Steven W. Dodenhoff, dated as of January
30, 2012.


 
 
 
 
 


10.17

 
—

 
Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of
December 31, 2002 among Insight Receivables, LLC,
Insight Enterprises, Inc., Jupiter Securitization
Corporation, Bank One NA, and the entities party
thereto from time to time as financial institutions
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 of our
annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002).




 

77



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K (continued)
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011
Commission File No. 0-25092





 
 
 
 
 


Exhibit
 
 
 


No.
 
Description




10.18

 
—

 
Amended and Restated Receivables Sale Agreement
dated as of September 3, 2003 by and among Insight
Direct USA, Inc. and Insight Public Sector, Inc. as
originators, and Insight Receivables, LLC, as buyer
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2003).


 
 
 
 
 


10.19

 
—

 
Amendment No. 1 to Receivables Purchase Agreement
dated as of September 3, 2003 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 of our quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003).


 
 
 
 
 


10.20

 
—

 
Amendment No. 2 to Receivables Purchase Agreement
dated as of December 23, 2003 among Insight
Receivables, LLC, Insight Enterprises, Inc. and
Jupiter Securitization Corporation, Bank One NA
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 of our
annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003).


 
 
 
 
 


10.21

 
—

 
Amendment No. 5 to Receivables Purchase Agreement
dated as of March 25, 2005 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 of our quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005).


 
 
 
 
 


10.22

 
—

 
Amendment No. 6 to Receivables Purchase Agreement
dated as of December 19, 2005 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our current report on
Form 8-K filed on December 22, 2005).


 
 
 
 
 


10.23

 
—

 
Amendment No. 7 to Receivables Purchase Agreement
dated as of September 7, 2006 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 of our current report on
Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2006).


 
 
 
 
 


10.24

 
—

 
Amendment No. 9 to Receivables Purchase Agreement
dated as of September 17, 2008 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 of our current report on
Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2008).


 
 
 
 
 


10.25

 
—

 
Amendment No. 11 and Joinder Agreement to
Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of July 24,
2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2009).


 
 
 
 
 


10.26

 
—

 
Amendment No. 12 to Receivables Purchase
Agreement dated as of July 1, 2010 among Insight
Receivables, LLC, Insight Enterprises, Inc., the
Purchasers and Managing Agents party thereto, and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to
Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago)), as agent for
the Purchasers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2010).


 
 
 
 
 


10.27

 
—

 
Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement,
dated as of April 1, 2008, among Insight
Enterprises, Inc., the European Borrowers (as
defined therein), the lenders party thereto, J.P.
Morgan Europe Limited, as European Agent, Wells
Fargo Bank, National Association and U.S. Bank
National Association, as Co-Syndication Agents, and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as
Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2009).


 
 
 
 
 


10.28

 
—

 
Amendment No. 1 to Second Amended and Restated
Credit Agreement dated as of September 17, 2008
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of our
current report on Form 8-K filed on September 23,
2008).


 
 
 
 
 


10.29

 
—

 
Amendment No. 3 to Second Amended and Restated
Credit Agreement, dated as of August 12, 2010, among
Insight Enterprises, Inc., Insight Direct (UK) Ltd.,
Insight Enterprises B.V., JPMorgan Chase Bank,
National Association, as Administrative Agent, and
certain lenders identified therein (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 of our quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010).


 
 
 
 
 


10.30

 
—

 
Credit Agreement among Castle Pines Capital LLC,
as an Administrative Agent, Wells Fargo Foothill,
LLC as an Administrative Agent, as Syndication Agent
and as Collateral Agent and Castle Pines Capital LLC
and the other lenders party thereto and Calence,
LLC, Insight Direct USA, Inc. as Resellers
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our
current report on Form 8-K filed on September 23,
2008).




 

78



Table of Contents

INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.
EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K (continued)
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011
Commission File No. 0-25092





 
 
 
 
 


Exhibit
 
 
 


No.
 
Description




10.31

 
 
—
Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of April 26, 2010, among Calence,
LLC, Insight Direct USA, Inc., Insight Public Sector, Inc., Castle Pines
Capital LLC, as an administrative agent, Wells Fargo Foothill, LLC, as an
administrative agent, as syndication agent and as collateral agent, and the
lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010).


10.32

 
 
—
 Amendment Number Two to Credit Agreement, dated as of August 12, 2010,
among Calence, LLC, Insight Direct USA, Inc., Insight Public Sector, Inc. and
the lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of our
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010).


21

 
 
—
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant.


23.1

 
 
—
 Consent of KPMG LLP.


24.1

 
 
—
 Power of Attorney for Timothy A. Crown dated February 16, 2012.


24.2

 
 
—
 Power of Attorney for Bennett Dorrance dated February 16, 2012.


24.3

 
 
—
 Power of Attorney for Michael M. Fisher dated February 16, 2012.


24.4

 
 
—
 Power of Attorney for Larry A. Gunning dated February 16, 2012.


24.5

 
 
—
 Power of Attorney for Anthony A. Ibargüen dated February 16,
2012.


24.6

 
 
—
 Power of Attorney for Robertson C. Jones dated February 16, 2012.


24.7

 
 
—
 Power of Attorney for Kathleen S. Pushor dated February 16, 2012.


31.1

 
 
—
 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Securities and
Exchange Act Rule 13a-14.


31.2

 
 
—
 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Securities and
Exchange Act Rule 13a-14.


32.1

 
 
—
 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


101

 
 
—
 Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T. In
accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the information in this exhibit
shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange
Act, or otherwise subject to liability under that section, and shall not be
incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document
filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set
forth by specific reference in such filing.






 
 
 


(1)
 
We have entered into a separate indemnification agreement with each of the following
directors and executive officers that differ only in names and dates: Richard E. Allen,
Steven R. Andrews, Glynis A. Bryan, Timothy A. Crown, Steven W. Dodenhoff, Bennett
Dorrance, Michael M. Fisher, Michael P. Guggemos, Larry A. Gunning, Anthony A.
Ibargüen, Helen K. Johnson, Robertson C. Jones, Kenneth T. Lamneck, David C.
Olsen and Kathleen S. Pushor. Pursuant to the instructions accompanying Item 601 of
Regulation S-K, the Registrant is filing the form of such indemnification agreement.

 

(2)
 
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


 

79





