
10-K
1
a12-1308_110k.htm
10-K







 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 

 
FORM 10-K
 

 
x  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011
 
o   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from            to            
 
Commission File Number: 0-25790
 

 
PC MALL, INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 




Delaware 

  

95-4518700  


(State or other jurisdiction of 

  

(IRS Employer  


incorporation or organization) 

  

Identification Number)   

 
1940 East Mariposa Avenue, El Segundo, CA 90245
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(310) 354-5600
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
 
2555 West 190th Street, Suite 201, Torrance, CA 90504
(Former address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 




Title of Each Class 

  

Name of Exchange on Which Registered  


Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share 

  

The NASDAQ Global Market   

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
 

 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes o  No x
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes o  No x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
 



Large accelerated   filer o 

  

Accelerated filer   x  


  

  

   


Non-accelerated   filer o 

  

Smaller Reporting   Company x  


(Do not check if   a smaller reporting company) 

  

    
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes o No x
 
As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $80.1 million, based upon the closing sales price of the registrant’s Common Stock on such date, as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market. Shares of Common Stock held by each executive officer, director and each person owning more than 10% of the outstanding Common Stock of the registrant have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates of the registrant. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.
 
As of March 9, 2012, the registrant had 11,996,129 shares of common stock outstanding.
 
Documents Incorporated By Reference Into Part III:
 
Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for the Registrant to be filed in connection with its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.
 

 

 





 
PC MALL, INC.
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 



  

Page  


  

   


PART I 

   


  

   


ITEM 1 — Business 

3  


  

   


ITEM   1A — Risk Factors 

15  


  

   


ITEM 1B — Unresolved Staff Comments 

30  


  

   


ITEM 2 — Properties 

30  


  

   


ITEM   3 — Legal Proceedings 

31  


  

   


ITEM 4 — Mine Safety Disclosures 

31  


  

   


PART II 

   


  

   


ITEM 5 — Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,   Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

32  


  

   


ITEM 6 — Selected Financial Data 

34  


  

   


ITEM 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of   Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

35  


  

   


ITEM 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures   about Market Risk 

52  


  

   


ITEM 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

53  


  

   


ITEM 9 — Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants   on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

77  


  

   


ITEM 9A — Controls and Procedures 

77  


  

   


ITEM   9B — Other Information 

78  


  

   


PART III 

   


  

   


ITEM 10 — Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate   Governance 

80  


  

   


ITEM 11 — Executive Compensation 

81  


  

   


ITEM 12 — Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial   Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

81  


  

   


ITEM 13 — Certain Relationships and Related   Transactions, and Director Independence 

81  


  

   


ITEM 14 — Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

81  


  

   


PART IV 

   


  

   


ITEM 15 — Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

81  


  

   


SIGNATURES 

87   
 
1





 
PART I
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Such statements include statements regarding our expectations, hopes or intentions regarding the future, including but not limited to, statements regarding our strategy, competition, markets, vendors, expenses, new services and technologies, growth prospects, financing, revenue, margins, operations, litigation and compliance with applicable laws. In particular, the following types of statements are forward-looking:
 
·              our use of management information systems and their need for future support or upgrade;
·              our expectations regarding the timing and costs of our ongoing or planned IT upgrades;
·              our ability to execute and benefit from our business strategies; including but not limited to, business strategies related to and strategic investments in our IT systems, our brand strategy, our efforts to expand our sales of value-added services and solutions offerings, our “daily deals” business model, our new corporate headquarters, our Chicago office, our healthcare vertical market efforts and, our Small Business Network;
·              our expectations regarding the potential sale, exchange and/or acquisition of certain real property assets;
·               our expectations regarding key executives and management and our ability to retain such individuals
·              our competitive advantages and growth opportunities;
·              our ability to increase profitability and revenues;
·              our expectations to continue our efforts to increase the productivity of our sales force and reduce costs;
·              our ability to generate vendor supported marketing;
·              our acquisition strategy and the impact of any past or future acquisitions;
·              the impact of acquisitions on our financial condition, liquidity and our future cash flows and earnings;
·              our expectation regarding general economic uncertainties and the related potential negative impact on our profit and profit margins, as well as our financial condition, liquidity and future cash flows;
·              our expectations regarding our future capital needs and the availability of working capital, liquidity, cash flows from operations and borrowings under our credit facility and other long-term debt;
·              the impact on accounts receivable from our efforts to focus on sales in our MME, SMB, and Public Sector segments;
·              our ability to penetrate the public sector market;
·              our beliefs relating to the benefits to be received from our Philippines office and Canadian call center, including tax credits and reduction in labor costs over time;
·              our belief regarding our exposure to currency exchange and interest rate risks;
·              our ability to attract new customers and stimulate additional purchases from existing customers, including our expectations regarding future advertising levels and the effect on consumer sales;
·              our ability to leverage our market position and purchasing power and offer a wide selection of products at competitive prices;
·              our expectations regarding the ability of our marketing programs or campaigns to stimulate additional purchases or to maximize product sales;
·              our belief that the use of extranets has the potential to yield additional sales opportunities and the ability to reach new customer bases;
·              our ability to limit risk related to price reductions;
·              our belief regarding the effect of seasonal trends and general economic conditions on our business and results of operations across all of our segments;
·              our expectations regarding competition and the industry trend toward consolidation;
·              our expectations regarding the payment of dividends and our intention to retain any earnings to finance the growth and development of our business;
·              our compliance with laws and regulations;
·              our beliefs regarding the applicability of tax statutes, regulations and governmental tax regulatory positions;
·              our expectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements;
·              our belief regarding financing of repurchases of our common stock;
·              our belief that backlog is not useful for predicting our future sales;
·              our belief that our existing distribution facilities are adequate for our current and foreseeable future needs; and
·              the likelihood that new laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet, privacy and data security that may impose additional restrictions or burdens on our business.
 
Forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those discussed in any such statement. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include the risks described under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report. All forward-looking statements in this document are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and, except as otherwise required by law, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or other information contained herein to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date hereof.
 
2





 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
General
 
PC Mall, Inc. is a leading value added direct marketer of technology products, services and solutions to businesses, government and educational institutions and individual consumers. We go to market through our dedicated sales force of over 700 account executives. We also offer our products, services and solutions through our field service teams, various direct marketing techniques and a limited number of retail stores. Since our founding in 1987, we have served our customers in part by offering them multi-branded hardware solutions from leading brands including HP, Apple, Cisco, Microsoft and Lenovo. Through us, these and other manufacturers are able to reach multiple customer segments including consumers, small and medium sized businesses, large enterprise businesses, as well as state, local and federal governments and educational institutions. We add additional value to our manufacturer partners by being able to sell, deliver and incorporate their products and services into comprehensive solutions with a high degree of customization. Our model also facilitates an efficient supply chain and support mechanism for manufacturers by using a combination of direct marketing, centralized selling and support, and centralized product fulfillment.
 
In 2011, we had five operating segments, SMB, MME, Public Sector, MacMall and OnSale. In the first quarter of 2012, we expect to realign our operating segments by consolidating the OnSale and MacMall segments. We will continue to include corporate related expenses such as legal, accounting, information technology, product management, certain support services and other administrative costs that are not otherwise allocated to our reportable operating segments in Corporate and Other. In 2011, we generated approximately 37% of our revenue in our MME segment, 35% of our revenue in our SMB segment, 13% of our revenue in our MacMall segment, 12% of our revenue in our Public Sector segment and 3% of our revenue in our OnSale segment.
 
Our SMB segment consists of sales made primarily to small and medium sized businesses, generally with less than 1,000 employees. The SMB segment utilizes an outbound phone based sales force and, where applicable, a field-based sales force, together with an online extranet customized for individual customers that enables them to manage their IT procurement process. In addition, the SMB segment markets to small businesses through its Small Business Network utilizing its own social network site at www.pcmallsbn.com.
 
Our MME segment consists of sales made primarily to mid-market and enterprise-sized businesses, generally with more than 1,000 employees, under the SARCOM, NSPI and Abreon brands. The MME segment sells complex products, services and solutions, utilizing a field relationship-based selling model, an outbound phone based sales force, a field service organization and an online extranet.
 
Our Public Sector segment consists of sales made primarily to federal, state and local governments, as well as educational institutions. The Public Sector segment utilizes an outbound phone and field relationship-based selling model, as well as contract and bid business development teams and an online extranet.
 
Our MacMall segment historically included sales made under our MacMall brand name via telephone and the Internet to consumers, small businesses and creative professionals.
 
Our OnSale segment historically included sales made under our OnSale and eCost brand names via the Internet and inbound phone-based sales forces. The OnSale segment has utilized traditional internet marketing as well as our recently developed “daily deals” business model. Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, in response to what we believe to be a rapidly changing way in which consumers shop and go to market, our OnSale segment expanded its business to enter the market for local daily deals through social commerce. As this market and its related customer buying behaviors have continued to evolve, the “daily deals” business model is rapidly expanding to include sales of IT products. In response to these developments, we have determined that our strategic objectives can be best achieved by incorporating the best practices, technologies and methodologies we have developed in our stand alone “daily deals” business into our traditional eCommerce platform and no longer operating a stand alone “daily deals” business.
 
Over the past several years, our company has grown into a multi-billion dollar enterprise in part through our acquisition (details can be found below) and internal cultivation of many different brands. We have historically differentiated those brands primarily based on the identity of the customers. After careful examination of the markets we serve and the trends taking shape in the marketplace, we have determined that going forward, our commercial customers can benefit from a more unified and streamlined brand strategy. In 2012, we expect to begin the process of unifying our commercial brands. We believe this unification will lead to an improved customer experience, operational synergies and benefits to all of our stakeholders, providing a brand that better represents the value-added solutions provider we are today.
 
3





 
We maintain a Canadian call center serving the U.S. market, which has historically received the benefit of labor credits under a Canadian government program. In 2007, we received an eligibility certificate to participate in the Investment Quebec Refundable Tax Credit for Major Employment Generating Projects (GPCE). In addition to other eligibility requirements, we are required to maintain a minimum of 317 eligible employees employed by our subsidiary PC Mall Canada, Inc. in the province of Quebec at all times to remain eligible to apply annually for these labor credits. As a result of this new certification, we are eligible to make annual labor credit claims for eligible employees equal to 25% of eligible salaries, but not to exceed $15,000 (Canadian) per eligible employee per year, beginning in fiscal year 2008 and continuing through fiscal year 2016. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accrued receivable of $7.0 million related to the 2010 and 2011 calendar years. We expect to file our 2011 claim in 2012 and we expect to receive full payment under our remaining accrued labor credits receivable.
 
Recent Developments
 
On February 10, 2012, we announced that we signed a definitive agreement to sell the property we own in Southern California, where one of our retail stores is currently located, for $17.5 million. While there are no guarantees that this transaction will close, we expect to realize a book gain of $15.9 million at the time of closing, which we currently expect to close during the second quarter of 2012. In connection with this sale, we intend to explore potential purchases or exchanges of real estate through Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We expect to effectuate such exchanges through one or more purchases of real property to be used in connection with our business and operations. We expect that any exchanges or purchases we make would benefit us through direct ownership of facilities that are strategic to our operations, reductions in our lease obligations, or other ancillary benefits.
 
On March 11, 2011, we completed the purchase of real property comprising approximately 184,000 square feet of land, which includes approximately 84,000 square feet of office space located at 1940 East Mariposa Avenue, El Segundo, California, which became our new corporate headquarters effective November 14, 2011. We purchased and have improved this building, located strategically adjacent to the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), because we want it to be a compelling destination for customers who want to experience new and cutting edge IT solutions in person. The new headquarters was designed to drive higher productivity and efficiency for our employees and to provide a state-of-the-art demo center for our customers and vendor partners, as well as increase capacity to support our growth well into the future. In conjunction with the move, we relocated and substantially upgraded our primary data center from Torrance, CA to our own hosting facility in Atlanta, GA, which incorporates state of the art monitoring and disaster recovery capabilities. As a result of this relocation certain of our subsidiaries now have geographically redundant web and information systems.  We are in the process of developing a formal disaster recovery plan for our critical systems.
 
On February 18, 2011, we acquired certain assets, including approximately $1 million of inventory, of eCOST.com, a subsidiary of PFSweb, Inc., for $2.3 million. eCOST.com is an online marketplace featuring an assortment of product categories, including but not limited to computers, networking, electronics and entertainment, TVs, monitors and projectors, cameras and camcorders, memory and storage, apparel, and sports and leisure items. The website also features a proprietary and patented shopping format, Bargain Countdown®, which amongst other features, offers limited time, limited quantity deals, and supports its premium online membership shopping club. eCOST.com commenced business in 1999 as a subsidiary of PC Mall. In September 2004, eCOST.com completed an initial public offering of approximately 19.8% of its outstanding common stock. In April 2005, we completed a spin-off of eCOST.com by distributing all of our remaining ownership interest in eCOST.com to our stockholders. In February 2006, eCOST.com was acquired by PFSweb in a stock for stock merger.
 
In June 2010, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Network Services Plus, Inc. (“NSPI”). NSPI, primarily a provider of hosted data center and managed IT services in the southeastern United States, had approximately 73 employees as of the closing date, 53 of whom were billable IT resources. NSPI’s managed services include hosted and remote managed monitoring of data centers, networks and IT environments, software as a service (SaaS), infrastructure as a service (IaaS), and other project-based offerings.
 
In October 2008, our Board of Directors approved a discretionary common stock repurchase program for up to $10 million of our common stock in aggregate with all other repurchases made under any repurchase programs following the date of such Board of Directors’ approval. This repurchase program effectively superseded an earlier repurchase program adopted in 1996. Under this new program, the shares may be repurchased from time to time at prevailing market prices, through open market or unsolicited negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. We expect that the repurchase of our common stock under this new program will be financed with existing working capital and amounts available under our existing credit facility. No limit was placed on the duration of the repurchase program. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that we will repurchase. Subject to applicable securities laws, repurchases may be made at such times and in such amounts as our management deems appropriate. The program can also be discontinued at any time management feels additional purchases are not warranted. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased a total of 432,012 shares of our common stock under this program for a total cost of $2.6 million. From the inception of the program in October 2008 through December 31, 2011, we had repurchased an aggregate total of 1,956,506 shares of our common stock for a total cost of $8.7 million. The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock.
 
4





 
Strategy
 
Our strategy is to be a value added single source provider of information technology products, services and solutions for our customers. Historically, we implemented our strategy as a rapid response, high volume, cost-efficient direct marketer of multi-branded, competitively-priced information technology products and services, while providing a high level of support to our customers. More recently, as we have added more service capabilities to our offerings to customers, we have become more focused on the return on investment (ROI) that our customers can generate by partnering with us. We believe our model is a compelling combination of technology hardware, services and solutions, highly efficient fulfillment engines and centralized back-office functions that enables us to provide significant value to our customers. The key elements of our strategy to profitably grow our revenues are discussed below.
 
Expand Our Client Base and Further Penetrate Our Existing Client Base
 
During 2011, as commercial, governmental and consumer IT spending continued at a more normalized rate, we continued to invest in people, processes and systems to enable us to attract new clients and also gain share within our current client base and in incremental markets. For example:
 
·                  The Small Business Network at www.pcmallsbn.com, is an innovative, social media platform designed to drive demand in businesses with fewer than 100 employees. This is the largest segment of businesses in the U.S. market, but has historically been difficult and expensive to reach. By utilizing viral marketing and social media, we believe that the Small Business Network gives us a unique platform to drive demand from these small businesses. In 2011, we grew the number of active members of the Small Business Network to over 51,000 small businesses. While revenues were modest through this site in 2011, our long-term goal is to create a compelling value for those businesses to shift their IT purchases to this network.
 
·                  We continued to invest in our new Chicago SMB call center. We believe that the excellent pool of qualified account executives available in the Chicago area has allowed us to assemble and maintain a strong local sales team to grow our business with SMB customers. Based on our plan, at the end of 2011, we had 64 outbound account executives at the Chicago SMB location and consistent with our experience in our other outbound call centers, we expect that these account executives will become more productive over time. We also added additional resources to all SMB call centers in 2011 specifically to support the growth of high-end solution sales to SMB clients, and to enable a stronger white space acquisition strategy for solutions.
 
·                  Health Dynamix is a vertically integrated team that, while based within our Public Sector segment, supports our SMB, MME and Public Sector segments, each of which serves customers within the healthcare market. The healthcare market is specialized and is changing rapidly and is also one of the fastest growing markets for IT products.  In addition, we partnered with HP and MedPlus (a subsidiary of Quest Diagnostics) in an effort to drive sales of Electronic Health Record (EHR) solutions. In support of this effort, during 2011, we invested in significant training for the healthcare oriented sales reps in our commercial teams and continued to publish color catalogs, website content and end user events in the healthcare space.  In 2011, we launched a healthcare vertical effort for MacMall, including web marketing, email marketing and end user promotions.  On average we saw accelerated growth in the healthcare vertical throughout 2011, and we expect that to continue in 2012 and beyond. We believe our investment in Health Dynamix is enabling us to continue to grow in this important market.
 
·                  With the large opportunity in the consumer market space in the United States, in late 2010 we expanded the reach of our consumer brands, OnSale and MacMall, by establishing their presence on leading consumer marketplace websites. We believe that the addition of these marketplace sites to our consumer portfolio will provide access to incremental customers and sales in the consumer space, and positions us for long term growth in that segment.
 
Our account executives are trained in solution selling, account management and offering high levels of service through a high touch model. Account executives in our SMB, MME and Public Sector segments handle a variety of customer needs, including ongoing customer service, technology assessment and support requirements, operations and procurement processes and other value-added services. We continue to place significant emphasis on increasing the productivity and tenure of our existing sales force through enhanced training and tools, as well as by optimizing our technical pre-sales resources and other support functions. Through these investments we intend to better equip our account executives to evaluate, understand and ultimately deliver solutions that address their customers’ IT needs.
 
5





 
Focus on the Growth of Our Value Added Services and Solutions Offerings
 
Historically, our growth has been driven by growth in hardware and software sales. Increasingly, our commercial customers are consuming IT differently. As a result, they are utilizing more elaborate services and solutions, and we intend to tailor our services and solutions offerings to leverage these market dynamics. We saw solid growth in 2011 for our service offerings across all of our commercial segments. We believe we have a significant opportunity for growth in service sales, and we continued to invest in additional capabilities in our service portfolio in 2011. Our sales of services were in excess of $100 million in 2011, and represented approximately 7% of our overall revenues. Additionally, early in 2012, we enhanced our tools and billing systems with the implementation of new help desk software. We currently have approximately 2,000 people dedicated to our services and solutions business, together with our engineering, sales and solution architects, carry thousands of technical certifications. These professionals add value to our clients through their expertise, knowledge and ability to craft customized solutions, and we expect to continue to add to our service and solutions capabilities going forward. With our experienced engineers, technicians and project managers, combined with a national network of third party service providers, we can provide pre-sales assessments and post-sales services efficiently to our customers in the SMB, mid-market/enterprise and public sector markets.
 
We work with our customers to identify areas where they can gain efficiencies by outsourcing what would have been traditional IT functions to us, including help desk support, deployment, project management, hosting, and related IT functions. In 2011, we significantly enhanced our value proposition in the areas where we believe companies are increasingly investing. Specifically, we are focused on solutions around the data center (which includes storage and security solutions), cloud computing, collaboration, virtualization, secure mobility, borderless networks and enterprise software solutions. Our services are available to our commercial and public sector customers and span the entire IT life cycle. These services include:
 
·                  Assessment & Planning Services
·                  Data Center Hosting Services
·                  Software Hosting Services
·                  Remote Systems Monitoring & Management
·                  IMAC & Deployment Services
·                  End-User Desktop Services
·                  Managed Print Services
·                  Recycling & Disposal Services
·                  Change Management Consulting Services
·                  Training
·                  Project Management
·                  Design and consulting
 
Further Strengthen Our Partnerships With Key OEMs and Publishers
 
We believe it is important to maintain relationships with key OEMs and publishers such as Apple, Cisco, HP, Lenovo and Microsoft, and other key partners on a company-wide basis. We believe our relationships with key partners give us increased visibility and legitimacy in the minds of our customers. Our long-standing relationships with important vendor partners provide us key insights related to new and existing products, product roadmaps and industry dynamics and help to ensure that our sales organization is knowledgeable and well positioned to understand and market new and emerging technologies to our customers.
 
In 2011, we believe we maintained or increased our position with each of our key vendor partners. We continued to invest in sales and technical competencies to drive solutions-centric sales to commercial customers. We added a number of specializations with certain of our top partners such as Apple, Cisco, HP, and Microsoft to align us with their strategic growth focus. We continued to enhance our training programs, our compensation plans and our marketing activities to support our growth plans with these key partners. We expect to continue to invest in these important capabilities as we strive to add additional value to our manufacturer partners by being able to sell, deliver and incorporate their products and services into comprehensive solutions with a high degree of customization.
 
Increase Operational Efficiencies
 
We utilize a centralized infrastructure for our back-office capabilities. In order to free our sales and marketing organizations to focus on their customers and on their growth, we maintain centralized IT, finance, human resources, and other functions. Some of these functions are located in the Philippines, which provides us a cost advantage. We believe that by leveraging a centralized model to perform back-office functions we may achieve a more efficient overall cost structure and ability to introduce new tools to our sales organizations.
 
6





 
We are an early adopter of eCommerce technology and have acquired significant expertise in the development and marketing through this channel. We utilize our public websites to provide our customers with easy and convenient shopping, ordering and tracking tools. Our extranet sites (CAP and Ops Track), which are customized extranets for commercial and public sector customers, provide these same capabilities along with custom catalogs, pricing, security, asset management and workflow configurable to the customers’ needs. We believe having sophisticated eCommerce capabilities facilitates customer acquisition and retention, and we leverage our shared services model to attempt to replicate best practices among our sales organizations.
 
We are currently upgrading many of our IT systems. We have purchased licenses for workflow software, web development tools and Microsoft Dynamics AX (Axapta) to upgrade our ERP systems. We initiated the implementation and upgrade of our eCommerce system in the second half of 2008 and have completed and launched a new generation of our public sites at macmall.com, onsale.com and pcmall.com. We are currently working on the implementation of the ERP modules and the upgrade of the ERP systems, including additional enhancements and features. We completed the initial phase of the implementation in January 2010, and we expect to be complete with all phases of the implementation of the ERP systems by 2013. We believe the implementation and upgrade should help us to gain further efficiencies across our organization.
 
Selectively Pursue Strategic Acquisitions
 
One element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, personnel or technologies that allow us to complement our existing operations expand our market coverage or add new business capabilities. Our market, broadly defined as the technology reseller channel, has undergone significant consolidation over the past 15-20 years. While we believe that the fragmented nature of the technology reseller industry and industry consolidation trends may continue to present acquisition opportunities for us, these trends may make acquisitions more competitive.
 
We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships and the purchase or sale of assets. We may choose to pursue acquisitions for several reasons. For instance, we may pursue acquisitions that will broaden our capabilities in IT services. We may also choose to pursue acquisitions that will enable us to further penetrate or enter geographies we deem attractive. We evaluate acquisition opportunities based on our assessment of several factors, including the perceived value of the opportunity, our available financing sources and potential synergies of the acquisition target with our business. Our implementation of our acquisition strategy depends on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and our ability to resolve challenges associated with integrating acquired businesses into our existing business. Our ability to complete acquisitions in the future will depend on our ability to fund such acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our existing credit facilities, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
Sales Activities. We believe that much of our success has come from the quality screening and training of our account executives. Account executives handle a variety of customer needs, including ongoing customer service, technology assessment and support requirements, operations and procurement processes and other value-added services in our SMB, MME and Public Sector segments. Account executives are responsible for assisting customers in purchasing decisions, answering product pricing and availability questions and processing product orders, but more importantly, they are responsible for proactively reaching out to their existing and prospective clients and assessing if there are technology opportunities where they can provide value.  They must profile accounts, identify and build relationship with all decision makers and influencers within their account base, and are responsible for growing the number of product and service categories where we partner with their customers; account executives have the authority to vary prices within specified parameters in order to be competitive. To ensure that the account executives are not bogged down in administrative tasks, they undergo an initial sales training program focusing on use of our systems, product offerings and networking solutions, sales techniques, and customer service.  There is also a support team backing up the account executives so that mundane, low value tasks are handled by less expensive administrative resources, leaving account executives to spend their time selling and prospecting. Our phone and computer systems are used for order entry, customer tracking and inventory management. We use a proprietary customer relationship management system for our outbound account executives to assist them with prospecting and account management functions. We also use a customer acquisition, retention and development program to support the ability of our outbound account executives to sell across more product categories.
 
To ensure that they are able to effectively sell all products and solutions, account executives also attend regular training sessions to stay up-to-date on new products. Account executives are also supported by “product champions” that are housed in our centralized back office organization, but are accessible through a work flow tool, and are sitting on the sales floor with the account executives, to assist them with product questions and solutions support or other product specific issues. We also require the account executives to acquire sales technical certifications or key technologies, such as VMware or Microsoft, to ensure that they are credible and competent to their customers when proposing these solutions.
 
7





 
We frequently enhance our tools to support our sales activities. During 2011, we worked diligently to develop and prepare for the implementation of our new CRM and order entry platform that would preserve the capability we have today, but also better leverage the technology enhancements available for a cleaner user interface. In addition, in 2011, we were able to provide our account executives better campaign management through the implementation of Lattice Engines and better configuration support for HP and Cisco solutions through the implementation of Exalt. Generally, these tools enable our account executives and sales managers to utilize a number of metrics and analytics from which incremental opportunities can be identified within specific customer accounts or an account executive’s entire book of business. This capability provides a solid foundation from which our account executives can expand their customer account penetration and drive incremental revenue and profitability.
 
We address the needs of our MacMall customers through inbound account executives, who are trained to support the product needs and the order management requirements of the customer. The account executives are managed to efficiently handle inquiries, while managing their ability to process orders rapidly and address customer service issues. The inbound sales force has access to phone-based technical and customer service resources to ensure a 24/7 ability to handle customer needs. MacMall also has an outbound sales force which calls on Apple’s Mac product oriented businesses with less than 50 employees and generally less than 20 employees. We believe that this is a large and growing segment, and that MacMall’s unique capabilities in Apple’s Mac product environment make for a strong value proposition in acquiring and servicing these small businesses particularly as Apple’s market share grows.
 
Marketing Activities. We design our marketing programs to attract new customers and to stimulate additional purchases by existing customers. Our marketing programs are tailored for MacMall, SMB, MME and public sector customers. We utilize sophisticated analytic tools designed to manage marketing campaigns using different media channels and to optimize campaigns through advanced data mining techniques. The analytic tools combine optimization techniques with multiple models to more effectively match offers to individuals and businesses in an effort to provide the most profitable results.
 
Vendor Supported Marketing. We provide vendor supported custom marketing campaigns for vendor partners that may include outbound call campaigns, webinars  for end users, lead campaigns, seminars for end users, promotional offers, sell advertising space in our catalogs and on our websites and offer trade-in and trade-up programs. We also work collaboratively with our vendor partners and use vendor funding to help offset portions of the costs of marketing promotions, direct mail offers, customer trainings and events and e-marketing or sales incentives which are each based on market opportunity and the vendors’ needs. We also develop marketing campaigns designed to maximize product sales and we receive funds from our vendors in the form of volume incentive rebates and other programs.
 
Proprietary Websites. We operate several websites, including pcmall.com, macmall.com, pcmallgov.com, sarcom.com, abreon.com, nspi.com, onsale.com, ecost.com, healthdynamix.com and pcmallsbn.com. Our websites offer features such as on-line ordering, access to inventory availability and a large product selection with detailed product information. We also maintain and operate commercial, customized extranets to provide custom catalogs and online purchasing channels for commercial and public sector customers and their employees. These extranet sites are designed to enhance sales productivity by allowing customers to perform routine tasks online, freeing the associated account executive’s time for other tasks.
 
Direct Marketing. We selectively mail catalogs to existing and prospective customers, advertise on the Internet and, to a limited extent, advertise in certain major computer magazines. We obtain the names of prospective customers through selected mailing lists acquired from various sources, including manufacturers, suppliers and computer magazine publishers. We also send direct marketing mailers to selected target audiences to drive sales to new and existing customers.
 
We create our marketing materials in-house with our own design team and production artists. We believe the in-house preparation of catalogs, advertisements, and promotional materials streamlines the production process, provides greater flexibility and creativity in catalog production and results in significant cost savings over outside production.
 
Online Marketing. eCommerce marketing programs and capabilities, such as affiliate marketing, search engine optimization, email and search engine marketing, are essential components of our customer acquisition and retention strategy. In 2011, we continued to invest in web merchandising resources and skills and enhanced our eCommerce technology to increase the efficiency of these online marketing vehicles and to fine tune the use of these vehicles based on projected profitability. A significant focused investment in 2011 was the development of a new extranet for PC Mall, which is set to launch to customers in early 2012. This extranet allows our business customers to have their own custom site with customer-specific pricing, ordering and security to cut their procurement costs and simplify the ordering process.
 
8





 
Products and Merchandising
 
We offer technology products, services and solutions, as well as consumer electronics equipment and other consumer products. We screen and select new products and manufacturers based on the market opportunity and technology adoption trends within our targeted customer markets. We also consider product attributes like features, quality, sales trends, price, margins, market development funds and warranties. We offer our customers other value-added services, such as custom configured systems, software licensing asset management, image management, and product asset tagging and asset disposal services.
 
Through frequent mailings of our catalogs and e-mails to our customers, we believe we are able to quickly introduce new products and replace slower selling products with new products. We also use various marketing materials, web training and local events to educate our customers on solutions and more complex technologies and to provide other content to describe technology applications and how they will benefit the customer. Through these materials and activities, we showcase the full breadth of the products and solutions we sell in an effort to provide our customers with a single source for all their technology needs.
 
The following table sets forth our net sales by major categories as a percentage of total net sales for the periods presented, determined based upon our internal product code classifications.
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Notebooks  

  

21.8 

% 

19.6 

% 

15.8 

%  


Software  

  

16.6 

  

16.6 

  

16.9 

   


Desktop  

  

10.1 

  

10.0 

  

9.4 

   


Networking  

  

6.9 

  

7.6 

  

7.7 

   


Professional services  

  

7.3 

  

6.0 

  

6.8 

   


Storage  

  

4.5 

  

5.8 

  

8.0 

   


Displays  

  

4.8 

  

4.4 

  

4.0 

   


iPods/MP3  

  

3.7 

  

3.9 

  

4.1 

   


Manufacturer service and warranty  

  

3.4 

  

3.7 

  

4.2 

   


Servers  

  

3.6 

  

3.6 

  

3.3 

   


Printers  

  

2.3 

  

2.7 

  

3.2 

   


Accessories  

  

3.0 

  

2.6 

  

2.7 

   


Supplies  

  

1.8 

  

2.4 

  

3.2 

   


Power  

  

2.3 

  

2.2 

  

2.1 

   


Input devices  

  

2.2 

  

1.9 

  

2.2 

   


Memory  

  

1.6 

  

1.8 

  

1.6 

   


Consumer electronics  

  

1.2 

  

1.2 

  

1.5 

   


Other (1)  

  

2.9 

  

4.0 

  

3.3 

   


Total  

  

100.0 

% 

100.0 

% 

100.0 

%   

 


(1)  Other consists primarily of other electronic products, income from miscellaneous items, and other consumer products.
 
Service Offerings for Commercial and Public Sector Markets
 
Our sales of services were in excess of $100 million in 2011 and represented approximately 7% of our overall revenues. Additionally, early in 2012, we enhanced our tools and billing systems with the implementation of new help desk software. We currently have approximately 2,000 people dedicated to our services and solutions business and together with our engineering, sales and solution architects, carry thousands of technical certifications. These professionals add value to our clients through their expertise, knowledge and ability to craft customized solutions, and we expect to continue to add to our service and solutions capabilities going forward. With our experienced engineers, technicians and project managers, combined with a national network of third party service providers, we can provide pre-sales assessments and post-sales services efficiently to our customers in the SMB, mid-market/enterprise and public sector markets.
 
We work with our customers to identify areas where they can gain efficiencies by outsourcing what would have been traditional IT functions to us, including help desk support, deployment, project management, hosting, and related IT functions. In 2011, we significantly enhanced our value proposition in the areas where companies are increasingly investing. Specifically, we are focused on solutions around the data center (which includes storage and security solutions), cloud computing, collaboration, virtualization, secure mobility, borderless networks, enterprise software solutions. Our services are available to our commercial and public sector customers and span the entire IT life cycle.
 
9





 
With our acquisition of NSPI in June 2010, we further enhanced our services portfolio with hosted data center and managed IT service capabilities. NSPI services are now offered nationwide through over 30 branch locations.
 
Our launch of the Health Dynamix brand into the healthcare market in June 2010 broadened our services portfolio to include support of electronic health record (EHR) adoption, assisting physicians in achieving meaningful utilization as defined by the US government. Participating physicians are now able to take advantage of EHR funds allocated by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
 
To better support our customers and as a reflection of our focus on customer satisfaction, we have grown to over 800 certified engineers, technicians and project managers providing on-site support to our clients. They support a wide variety of technology solutions and services, and are augmented by a nationwide network of service providers that act as our subcontractor to increase our reach into all geographical markets.
 
Our engineers, sales and solution architects are experts in their field who collectively hold thousands of technical certifications. With regular training to maintain and expand these certifications and authorizations, we continue to serve our most forward-thinking clients, helping them optimize their IT environments and meeting their service and support requirements.
 
Along with our strong industry relationships with Apple, Cisco, HP, Microsoft, Lenovo and others, we continue to utilize our relationships with third party service contractors when we do not have in-house capabilities to deliver the most appropriate solution for our customers. Our IT services, whether they are delivered by us or through our partners, complement our offerings, and we strive to develop complete solutions that lead to growth and success.
 
Purchasing and Inventory
 
Effective purchasing is a key element of our strategy to provide name brand computer products and related software and peripherals at competitive prices. We believe that our high volume of sales results in increased purchasing power with our primary suppliers, resulting in volume discounts, favorable product return policies and vendor promotional allowances. Products manufactured by Apple represented approximately 21%, 21% and 19% of our net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Products manufactured by HP accounted for 20%, 20% and 19% of our net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. We are also linked electronically with 17 distributors and manufacturers, which allows our account executives to view applicable product availability online and drop-ship those products directly to customers. The benefits of this program include reduced inventory carrying costs, higher order fill rates and improved inventory turns.
 
Many of our vendor partners provide us with market development funds to assist in the active marketing and sales of their products. Such funds help offset portions of the cost of catalog publication and distribution based upon the amount of coverage given in the catalogs for their products, as well as other costs incurred to market their products. Termination or interruption of our relationships with our vendors, or modification of the terms of or discontinuance of our agreements with our vendors, could adversely affect our operating results. Our success is dependent in part upon the ability of our vendors to develop and market products that meet the changing requirements of the marketplace. As is customary in our industry, we have no long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. Substantially all of our contracts with our vendors are terminable upon 30 days’ notice or less.
 
We attempt to manage our inventory to optimize order fill rate and customer satisfaction, while limiting inventory risk. Inventory levels may vary from period to period, due in part to increases or decreases in sales levels, our practice of making large-volume purchases when we deem the terms of such purchases to be attractive and the addition of new manufacturers and products. We have negotiated agreements with many of our vendors that contain price protection provisions intended to reduce our risk of loss due to manufacturer price reductions. We currently have such rights with respect to certain products that we purchase from Apple, HP and certain other vendors; however, rights vary by product line, have conditions and limitations and generally can be terminated or changed at any time.
 
The market for information technology products, solutions and services is characterized by rapid technological change and growing diversity. We believe that our success depends in large part on our ability to identify and obtain the right to market products, solutions and services that meet the changing requirements of the marketplace and to obtain sufficient quantities to meet changing demands. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and offer products, solutions and services necessary to remain competitive or avoid losses related to excess or obsolete inventory.
 
Backlog
 
Our backlog generally represents open, cancelable orders and may vary significantly from period to period. We do not believe that backlog is useful for predicting our future sales.
 
10





 
Distribution
 
We operate a full-service 212,000 square foot distribution center in Memphis, Tennessee, an 84,640 square foot warehouse facility in Columbus, Ohio and a 20,254 square foot warehouse facility in Irvine, California. The Memphis warehouse is our primary distribution center and is strategically located near the FedEx main hub in Memphis, which allows most orders of in-stock products accepted by 10:00 p.m. Eastern Time to be shipped for delivery by 10:30 a.m. the following day via FedEx priority, if requested by the customer. Upon request, orders may also be shipped at a lower cost using other modes of transportation such as FedEx standard, FedEx overnight, FedEx ground, United Parcel Service ground delivery or the United States Postal Service. The Columbus and Irvine warehouses primarily function as custom configuration and distribution centers for our corporate customers. We believe that our existing distribution facilities are adequate for our current and foreseeable future needs.
 
When an order is entered into our systems, a credit check or credit card verification is performed, and if approved, and the product is in stock, the order is electronically transmitted to the warehouse for order fulfillment. Inventory items are bar coded and located in computer-designated areas which are easily identified on the packing slip. Orders are checked with bar code scanners prior to final packing to ensure that each order is packed correctly.
 
We also have electronic purchasing and drop shipping systems for products that are not in stock at our distribution centers. Seventeen distributors and manufacturers are linked to us electronically to provide inventory availability and pricing information. We transmit orders electronically for immediate shipment via an electronic interchange to the selected distributor after considering inventory availability, service level, price and location. This capability has historically allowed us to ship a high percentage of orders on the same day that they are received.
 
Management Information Systems
 
We have committed significant resources to the development of sophisticated computer systems that are used to manage our business. Our computer systems support phone and web-based sales, marketing, purchasing, accounting, customer service, warehousing and distribution, and facilitate the preparation of daily operating control reports which are designed to provide concise and timely information regarding key aspects of our business. The systems allow us to, among other things, monitor sales trends, make informed purchasing decisions, and provide product availability and order status information. In addition to the main computer systems, we have systems of networked personal computers across all of our U.S. and foreign locations. We also use our management information systems to manage our inventory. We believe that in order to remain competitive, we will need to upgrade our management information systems on a regular basis, which could require significant capital expenditures.
 
We are currently upgrading many of our IT systems. We have purchased licenses for Microsoft Dynamics AX (Axapta) and other related tools, such as workflow software, web development tools and other related items, to upgrade our ERP and eCommerce systems. We initiated the implementation and upgrade of our eCommerce system in the second half of 2008 and have completed and launched a new generation of our public sites at macmall.com, onsale.com, ecost.com and pcmall.com. We are currently working on the implementation of the ERP modules and the upgrade of the ERP systems, including additional enhancements and features, and we expect to be complete with all phases of the implementation of the ERP systems by 2013. We believe the implementation and upgrade should help us to gain further efficiencies across our organization. Based on our estimates, which are subject to change, we currently expect to incur a total cost of up to $14 million for all these IT system upgrades. To date, we have incurred approximately $10.8 million of such costs. In addition to the above expenditures, we expect on an ongoing basis to make periodic upgrades to our IT systems.
 
In addition to the upgrades to our IT systems, in July 2008, we entered into an agreement with Cisco Systems for the purchase and implementation of various solutions to upgrade our current infrastructure for up to approximately $4.6 million. The purchase is financed through a capital lease over a five year term. Our plan is to provide a unified platform for our entire company and to provide a robust and efficient contact center. We completed the implementation of the Cisco solution across all of our locations in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Our success is dependent on the accuracy and proper utilization of our management information systems and our telephone system. In addition to the costs associated with system upgrades, the transition to and implementation of new or upgraded hardware or software systems can result in system delays or failures. We currently operate one of our management information systems using an HP3000 Enterprise System, which was supported by HP until December 2010. We have had a contract for the last three years with a third party service provider that specializes in maintenance and support of both hardware and operating system, to provide us adequate support until the completion of the upgrade of our management information system, which is expected to be completed by 2013. Any interruption, corruption, degradation or failure of our management information systems or telephone system could adversely impact our ability to receive and process customer orders on a timely basis.
 
11





 
We have recently relocated our company headquarters and main data center from Torrance, California to El Segundo, California.  As a result of this relocation, we have upgraded our infrastructure and provided geographical redundancy for critical systems that were operating from Torrance.  The geographical redundancy is provided through our newly upgraded data center in El Segundo, California and our own hosting facility in Atlanta, Georgia. The two data centers now provide geographically redundancy for certain critical systems. We will have more streamlined primary/secondary in the future as we migrate from legacy to new ERP.
 
Retail Stores
 
We currently operate four retail stores, located in Huntington Beach, Santa Monica and Torrance, California and Chicago, Illinois, whose target customers are consumers and small businesses residing or located in the local areas.  We opened the new retail store in Huntington Beach, California in November 2011 and the new retail store in Chicago, Illinois in March 2012. The retail stores operate under the MacMall brand and they are able to extend the reach of the Apple brand into markets where Apple does not currently have a retail location.
 
Competition
 
The business of selling information technology products, solutions and services is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of companies that can be divided into several broad categories:
 
·             other direct marketers, including CDW, Insight Enterprises and PC Connection;
·             large value added resellers such as CompuCom Systems, Pomeroy IT Solutions and World Wide Technology;
·             government resellers such as GTSI, CDWG and GovConnection;
·             computer retail stores and resellers, including superstores such as Best Buy and Staples;
·             hardware and software vendors such as Apple and Dell Computer that sell or are increasing sales directly to end users;
·             online resellers, such as Amazon.com, Newegg.com and TigerDirect.com;
·             software focused resellers such as Soft Choice and Software House International; and
·             other direct marketers and value added resellers of information technology products, solutions and services.
 
Barriers to entry are relatively low in the direct marketing industry, and the risk of new competitors entering the market is high. The markets in which our retail stores operate are also highly competitive.
 
Competition in our market is based on various factors, including but not limited to, price, product selection, quality and availability, ease of doing business, customer service, and brand recognition.
 
The manner in which the products, solutions and services we sell are distributed and sold is continually changing, and new methods of sales and distribution have emerged. Information technology resellers are consolidating operations and acquiring or merging with other resellers to achieve economies of scale and increased efficiency. Our largest manufacturers have sold, and continue to sell, their products directly to customers. To the extent additional manufacturers adopt this selling format or this trend becomes more prevalent, it could adversely affect our sales and profitability. In addition, traditional retailers have entered and may increase their penetration into direct marketing and the SMB market. The current industry reconfiguration and the trend toward consolidation could cause the industry to become even more competitive, further increase pricing pressures and make it more difficult for us to maintain our operating margins or to increase or maintain the same level of net sales or gross profit.
 
Although many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, we believe that our ability to offer SMB, mid-market/enterprise, public sector and consumer customers a wide selection of products, solutions and services, at competitive prices, with prompt delivery and a high level of customer satisfaction, together with good relationships with our vendors and suppliers, allows us to compete effectively. We compete not only for customers, but also for favorable product allocations and cooperative advertising support from product manufacturers. Some of our competitors could enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with our vendors and deny us access to their products and solutions, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns and devote substantially more resources to their websites and systems development than we can. New technologies and the continued enhancement of existing technologies also may increase competitive pressures on us. Some of our competitors have reduced their prices in an attempt to stimulate sales. If competition or technological changes cause the prices of our products, solutions and services to decrease, we must increase the quantity of the products, solutions and services we sell to achieve the same level of net sales and gross profit. If prices decrease and we are unable to attract new customers and sell increased quantities, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we can continue to compete effectively against existing or new competitors that may enter the market. We believe that competition may increase in the future, which could require us to adopt competitive pricing strategies, which could include reduced prices or a decision not to raise prices to offset any cost increases; increase advertising expenditures; or take other competitive actions that may have an adverse effect on our operating results.
 
12





 
Intellectual Property
 
We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with our employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property, including using our trademarks or domain names, without authorization. Although we regularly assert our intellectual property rights when we learn that they are being infringed, these claims can be time-consuming and may require litigation and administrative proceedings to be successful. We have numerous trademarks and service marks that we consider to be material to the successful operation of our business. The most important are PC Mall, SARCOM, MacMall, OnSale, and Abreon, which we currently use in connection with telephone, mail order, catalog and/or online retail services. We have registrations for PC Mall and MacMall in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions for telephone, mail order, catalog and/or online retail services.
 
Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our business methods or the technologies we use infringe their intellectual property rights. We may be subject to intellectual property claims and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. If we are forced to defend against any third-party infringement claims, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation and be required to pay monetary damages, which could include treble damages and attorneys’ fees for any infringement that is found to be willful, and either be enjoined or required to pay ongoing royalties with respect to any business methods or technologies that are found to be infringing. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license technology to us, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing business methods or technology, which could be costly and time-consuming, or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements.
 
Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, hire employees who have had access to our proprietary technologies, processes and operations. This exposes us to the risk that former employees will misappropriate our intellectual property.
 
Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, which could materially harm our business.
 
Segment Reporting Data
 
Operating segment and principal geographic area data for 2011, 2010 and 2009 are summarized in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Employees
 
At December 31, 2011, we had 2,985 full-time and 93 part-time employees, consisting of 1,965 in the United States, 378 in Canada and 735 in the Philippines. We emphasize recruiting and training high-quality personnel and, to the extent practical, promote people to positions of increased responsibility from within the company. Many employees initially receive training appropriate for their position, followed by varying levels of training in computer technology, communication and leadership. New account executives participate in an intensive sales training program, during which time they are introduced to our business ethics and philosophy, available resources, products and services, as well as basic and advanced sales skills. Training for specific product lines and continuing education programs are conducted on a regular basis, supplemented by vendor-sponsored training programs for account executives and technical support personnel.
 
We consider our employee relations to be good. None of our employees is represented by a labor union, and we have experienced no work stoppages.
 
Regulatory and Legal Matters
 
Our direct response business is subject to the Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule and other related regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission and it is also subject to other laws and regulations applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet. We also are subject to general business laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations specifically governing companies that do business over the Internet. These laws and regulations may cover taxation of eCommerce, user privacy, marketing and promotional practices (including electronic communications with our customers and potential customers), database protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, product safety, the provision of online payment services, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights, data security, unauthorized access (including the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act), and the characteristics and quality of products and services. Additionally, some of our subsidiaries which are government contractors or subcontractors are subject to laws and regulations of the federal government related to companies that sell to the federal government, including but not limited to regulations of the Department of Labor and laws and regulations related to our procurement of products and services and our sales to the government.
 
13





 
While we believe we are currently in compliance with such laws and regulations and have sought to implement processes, programs and systems in an effort to achieve compliance with existing laws and regulations applicable to our business, many of these laws and regulations are unclear and have yet to be interpreted by courts, or may be subject to conflicting interpretations by courts. No assurances can be given that new laws or regulations will not be enacted or adopted, or that our processes, programs and systems will be sufficient to comply with present or future laws or regulations, which might adversely affect our operations. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is likely that new laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet, including laws and regulations that may impose additional restrictions or burdens on our business. Moreover, the growth and development of the market for Internet commerce could prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that, if enacted, could impose additional restrictions or burdens on us and other companies conducting business over the Internet. In addition to imposing restrictions or burdens on our business, the adoption of any additional laws or regulations with respect to the Internet may decrease the growth of Internet usage, which, in turn, could decrease the demand for and growth of our Internet-based sales.
 
Based upon current law, certain of our subsidiaries currently collect and remit sales and use tax only on sales of products or services to residents of the states in which the respective subsidiaries have a physical presence or have voluntarily registered. Various state taxing authorities have sought to impose on direct marketers with no physical presence in the taxing state the burden of collecting state sales and use taxes on the sale of products or services shipped or sold to those states’ residents, and it is possible that such a requirement could be imposed in the future. In addition, a number of bills may be introduced or are pending before federal and state legislatures that would potentially expand our tax collection or reporting responsibility. Until these legislative efforts have run their course and the courts have considered and resolved some cases involving these tax collection and reporting issues, there can be no assurance that future laws or interpretations of existing laws imposing taxes or other regulations on direct marketing or Internet commerce would not substantially impair our growth or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
In addition, we and our subsidiaries may be subject to state or local taxes on income or (in states such as Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Texas or Washington) on gross receipts or a similar measure earned in a state even though we and our subsidiaries may have no physical presence in the state. State and local governments may seek to impose such taxes in cases where they believe the taxpayer may have a significant economic presence by reason of significant sales to customers located in the states. The responsibility to pay income and gross receipts taxes has also been the subject of court actions and various legislative efforts. There can be no assurance that these taxes will not be imposed upon us and our subsidiaries.
 
Available Information
 
Our corporate website address is www.pcmall.com. We are subject to the informational requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and file or furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to these reports, if any, available free of charge on our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We have also adopted a code of conduct and ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees which is available on our website. The information contained on our website is not part of this report or incorporated by reference herein.
 
***
 
14





 
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
 
This report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our business which are set forth below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely.
 
Our success is in part dependent on the accuracy and proper utilization of our management information systems.
 
We have committed significant resources to the development of sophisticated computer systems that are used to manage our business. Our computer systems support phone and web-based sales, marketing, purchasing, accounting, customer service, warehousing and distribution, and facilitate the preparation of daily operating control reports which are designed to provide concise and timely information regarding key aspects of our business. The systems allow us to, among other things, monitor sales trends, make informed purchasing decisions, and provide product availability and order status information. In addition to the main computer systems, we have systems of networked personal computers across all of our U.S. and foreign locations. We also use our management information systems to manage our inventory. We believe that in order to remain competitive, we will need to upgrade our management information systems on a regular basis, which could require significant capital expenditures.
 
We are currently upgrading many of our IT systems. We have purchased licenses for Microsoft Dynamics AX (Axapta) and other related tools, such as workflow software, web development tools and other related items, to upgrade our ERP and eCommerce systems. We initiated the implementation and upgrade of our eCommerce system in the second half of 2008 and have completed and launched a new generation of our public sites at macmall.com, onsale.com, ecost.com and pcmall.com. We are currently working on the implementation of the ERP modules and the upgrade of the ERP systems, including additional enhancements and features, and we expect to be complete with all phases of the implementation of the ERP systems by 2013.
 
In addition to the upgrades to our IT systems, in July 2008, we entered into an agreement with Cisco Systems for the purchase and implementation of various solutions to upgrade our current infrastructure for a total cost of approximately $4.6 million. The purchase is financed through a capital lease over a five year term. We believe these upgrades have provided us with a unified platform for our entire company and a robust and efficient contact center. We completed the implementation of the Cisco solution across all of our locations in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Our success is dependent on the accuracy and proper utilization of our management information systems and our telephone system. In addition to the costs associated with system upgrades, the transition to and implementation of new or upgraded systems can result in system delays or failures. We currently operate one of our management information systems using an HP3000 Enterprise System, which was supported by HP until December 2010. We have had a contract for the last three years with a third party service provider, who specializes in maintenance and support of both hardware and operating system, to provide us adequate support until the completion of the upgrade of our management information system, which is expected to be completed by 2013.
 
In addition to the specifically discussed IT and phone system upgrades discussed above, we also regularly upgrade our systems in an effort to better meet the information requirements of our users, and believe that to remain competitive, it will be necessary for us to upgrade our management information systems on a regular basis in the future. The implementation of any upgrades is complex, in part, because of the wide range of processes and the multiple systems that may need to be integrated across our business.
 
In connection with any system upgrades, we generally create a project plan to provide a reasonable allocation of resources to the project; however, execution of any such plan, or a divergence from it, may result in cost overruns, project delays or business interruptions. Furthermore, any divergence from any such project plan could affect the timing or the extent of benefits we may expect to achieve from the system or any process efficiencies. Any such project delays, business interruptions or loss of expected benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design, operation or implementation of our IT systems, or in the performance of our systems, particularly any disruptions, delays or deficiencies that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to effectively run and manage our business, including our ability to receive, process, ship and bill for orders in a timely manner or our ability to properly manage our inventory or accurately present our inventory availability or pricing. We do not currently have a redundant or back-up telephone system, nor do we have complete redundancy for our management information systems. Any interruption, corruption, deficiency or delay in our management information systems, including those caused by natural disasters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
15





 
Changes and uncertainties in the economic climate could negatively affect the rate of information technology spending by our customers, which would likely have an impact on our business.
 
An important element of our business strategy is to increasingly focus on SMB, MME and Public Sector sales. As a result of the ongoing economic uncertainties, the direction and relative strength of the U.S. economy remains a considerable risk to our business, operating results and financial condition. This economic uncertainty could also increase the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable from our customers. During the recent economic downturns in the U.S. and elsewhere, SMB, MME and Public Sector entities generally reduced, often substantially, their rate of information technology spending. Additionally, these recent weak economic conditions and consumer confidence resulted in a decline in consumer spending on technology and related consumer goods. Future changes and uncertainties in the economic climate in the U.S. and elsewhere could have a similar negative impact on the rate of information technology spending of our current and potential customers, which would likely have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and could significantly hinder our growth and prevent us from achieving our financial performance goals.
 
Our earnings and growth rate could be adversely affected by negative changes in economic or geopolitical conditions.
 
We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions and unstable geopolitical conditions. If economic growth in the United States and other countries’ economies slows or declines, consumer and business spending rates could be significantly reduced. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales and payment cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Weak general economic conditions or uncertainties in geopolitical conditions, such as those currently occurring for example in the Middle East, could adversely impact our revenue, expenses and growth rate. In addition, our revenue, gross margins and earnings could deteriorate in the future as a result of unfavorable economic or geopolitical conditions.
 
Our revenue is dependent on sales of products from a small number of key manufacturers, and a decline in sales of products from these manufacturers could materially harm our business.
 
Our revenue is dependent on sales of products from a small number of key manufacturers and software publishers, including Apple, Cisco, HP, IBM, Lenovo, Microsoft and Dell. For example, products manufactured by Apple accounted for approximately 21%, 21% and 19% of our total net sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, and products manufactured by HP accounted for approximately 20%, 20% and 19% of our total net sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009. A decline in sales of any of our key manufacturers’ products, whether due to decreases in supply of or demand for their products, termination of any of our agreements with them, or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results.
 
Certain of our vendors provide us with incentives and other assistance that reduce our operating costs, and any decline in these incentives and other assistance could materially harm our operating results.
 
Certain of our vendors, including Adobe, Apple, Cisco, Dell, HP, IBM, Ingram Micro, Lenovo, Microsoft and Tech Data, provide us with trade credit or substantial incentives in the form of discounts, credits and cooperative advertising. We have agreements with many of our vendors under which they provide us, or they have otherwise consistently provided us, with market development funds to finance portions of our catalog publication and distribution costs based upon the amount of coverage we give to their respective products in our catalogs or other advertising mediums. Any termination or interruption of our relationships with one or more of these vendors, particularly Apple or HP, or modification of the terms or discontinuance of our agreements and market development fund programs and arrangements with these vendors, could adversely affect our operating income and cash flow. For example, the amount of vendor consideration we receive from a particular vendor may be impacted by a number of events outside of our control, including acquisitions, management changes or economic pressures affecting such vendor, any of which could materially affect the amount of vendor consideration we receive from such vendor.
 
We do not have long-term supply agreements or guaranteed price or delivery arrangements with our vendors.
 
In most cases we have no guaranteed price or delivery arrangements with our vendors. As a result, we have experienced and may in the future experience inventory shortages on certain products. Furthermore, our industry occasionally experiences significant product supply shortages and customer order backlogs due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply certain products as needed. We cannot assure you that suppliers will maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill our orders on a timely basis, or at all, or that we will be able to obtain particular products on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, we cannot assure you that product lines currently offered by suppliers will continue to be available to us. A decline in the supply or continued availability of the products of our vendors, or a significant increase in the price of those products, could reduce our sales and negatively affect our operating results.
 
16





 
Substantially all of our agreements with vendors are terminable within 30 days.
 
Substantially all of our agreements with vendors are terminable upon 30 days’ notice or less. For example, while we are an authorized dealer for the full retail line of HP and Apple products, HP and Apple can terminate our dealer agreements upon 30 days’ notice. Vendors that currently sell their products through us could decide to sell, or increase their sales of, their products directly or through other resellers or channels. Any termination, interruption or adverse modification of our relationship with a key vendor or a significant number of other vendors would likely adversely affect our operating income, cash flow and future prospects.
 
Our success is dependent in part upon the ability of our vendors to develop and market products that meet changes in marketplace demand, as well as our ability to sell popular products from new vendors.
 
The products we sell are generally subject to rapid technological change and related changes in marketplace demand. Our success is dependent in part upon the ability of our vendors to develop and market products that meet these changes in marketplace demand. Our success is also dependent on our ability to develop relationships with and sell products from new vendors that address these changes in marketplace demand. To the extent products that address changes in marketplace demand are not available to us, or are not available to us in sufficient quantities or on acceptable terms, we could encounter increased price and other competition, which would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
We may not be able to maintain existing or build new vendor relationships, which may affect our ability to offer a broad selection of products at competitive prices and negatively impact our results of operations.
 
We purchase products for resale both directly from manufacturers and indirectly through distributors and other sources, all of whom we consider our vendors. We also maintain certain qualifications and preferred provider status with several of our vendors, which provides us with preferred pricing, vendor training and support, preferred access to products, and other significant benefits. While these vendor relationships are an important element of our business, we do not have long-term agreements with any of these vendors. Any agreements with vendors governing our purchase of products are generally terminable by either party upon 30 days’ notice or less. In general, we agree to offer products through our catalogs and on our websites and the vendors agree to provide us with information about their products and honor our customer service policies. If we do not maintain our existing relationships or build new relationships with vendors on acceptable terms, including favorable product pricing and vendor consideration, we may not be able to offer a broad selection of products or continue to offer products at competitive prices. In addition, some vendors may decide not to offer particular products for sale on the Internet, and others may avoid offering their new products to retailers offering a mix of close-out and refurbished products in addition to new products. From time to time, vendors may be acquired by other companies, terminate our right to sell some or all of their products, modify or terminate our preferred provider or qualification status, change the applicable terms and conditions of sale or reduce or discontinue the incentives or vendor consideration that they offer us. Any such termination or the implementation of such changes, or our failure to build new vendor relationships, could have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, some products are subject to manufacturer or distributor allocation, which limits the number of units of those products that are available to us and may adversely affect our operating results.
 
Narrow gross margins magnify the impact of variations in operating costs and of adverse or unforeseen events on operating results.
 
We are subject to intense price competition with respect to the products, services and solutions we sell. As a result, our gross margins have historically been narrow, and we expect them to continue to be narrow. During the recent economic downturn, we experienced increasing price competition, which had a negative impact on our gross margins. Narrow gross margins magnify the impact of variations in operating costs and of adverse or unforeseen events on operating results. Future increases in costs such as the cost of merchandise, wage levels, shipping rates, freight costs and fuel costs may negatively impact our margins and profitability. We are not always able to raise the sales price to offset cost increases. If we are unable to maintain our gross margins in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, because price is an important competitive factor in our industry, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to increased price competition in the future. If we become subject to increased price competition in the future, we cannot assure you that we will not lose market share, that we will not be forced to reduce our prices and further reduce our gross margins, or that we will be able to compete effectively.
 
We experience variability in our net sales and net income on a quarterly basis as a result of many factors.
 
We experience variability in our net sales and net income on a quarterly basis as a result of many factors.  These factors include:
 
·                  the general economic environment and competitive conditions, such as pricing;
·                  the timing of procurement cycles by our business, government and educational institution customers;
 
17





 
·                  seasonality in consumer spending;
·                  variability in vendor programs;
·                  the introduction of new products, services or solutions by us or our competitors;
·                  changes in prices from our suppliers;
·                  promotions;
·                  the loss or consolidation of significant suppliers or customers;
·                  our ability to control costs;
·                  the timing of our capital expenditures;
·                  the condition of our industry in general;
·                  seasonal shifts in demand for products, services or solutions we offer;
·                  consumer acceptance of new purchasing models such as our daily deals offerings and the use of social commerce to drive sales;
·                  industry announcements and market acceptance of new offerings or upgrades;
·                  deferral of customer orders in anticipation of new offerings;
·                  product or solution enhancements or operating system changes;
·                  the relative mix of products, services and solutions sold during the period;
·                  any inability on our part to obtain adequate quantities of products, services or solutions;
·                  delays in the release by suppliers of new products or solutions and inventory adjustments;
·                  our expenditures on new business ventures and acquisitions;
·                  performance of acquired businesses;
·                  adverse weather conditions that affect supply or customer response;
·                  distribution or shipping to our customers; and
·                  geopolitical events.
 
Our planned operating expenditures each quarter are based on sales forecasts for the quarter. If our sales do not meet expectations in any given quarter, our operating results for the quarter may be materially adversely affected. Our narrow gross margins may magnify the impact of these factors on our operating results. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. In addition, our results in any quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. In future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors and as a result the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected.
 
Our focus on SMB, MME and Public Sector sales presents numerous risks and challenges, and may not improve our profitability or result in expanded market share.
 
An important element of our business strategy is to focus on SMB, MME and Public Sector sales and related market share growth.  In competing in these markets, we face numerous risks and challenges, including competition from a wider range of sources and the need to continually develop and enhance strategic relationships. We cannot assure you that our focus on SMB, MME and Public Sector sales will result in expanded market share or increased profitability. Furthermore, revenue from our public sector business is derived from sales to federal, state and local governmental departments and agencies, as well as to educational institutions, through various contracts and open market sales. Government contracting is a highly regulated area, and noncompliance with government procurement regulations or contract provisions could result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability, including substantial monetary fines or damages, termination of government contracts, and suspension, debarment or ineligibility from doing business with the government. The effect of any of these possible actions by any governmental department or agency with which we contract could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Moreover, contracting with governmental departments and agencies involves additional risks, such as longer payment terms, limited recourse against the government agency in the event of a business dispute, requirements that we provide representations, warranties and indemnities related to the products, services and solutions we sell, the potential lack of a limitation of our liability for damages from our product sales or our provision of services to the department or agency, and the potential for changes in statutory or regulatory provisions that negatively affect the profitability of such contracts. Similarly, our MME, and to some extent, our SMB businesses also require us to regularly enter into complex contractual relationships involving various risks and uncertainties such as requirements that we provide representations, warranties and indemnities to our customers and potential lack of limitation of our liability for damages under some of such contracts.
 
Our investments in our outbound phone-based sales force model may not improve our profitability or result in expanded market share.
 
We have made and are currently making efforts to increase our market share by investing in training and retention of our outbound phone-based sales force. We have also incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant expenses resulting from infrastructure investments related to our outbound phone-based sales force. We cannot assure you that any of our investments in our outbound phone-based sales force will result in expanded market share or increased profitability in the near or long term.
 
18





 
Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are not able to retain and increase the experience of our sales force or if we are not able to maintain or increase their productivity.
 
Our sales and operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase the average tenure of our account executives or if the sales volumes and profitability achieved by our account executives do not increase with their increased experience.
 
Existing or future government and tax laws and regulations and related risks could expose us to liabilities or costly changes in our business operations, and could reduce demand for our products and services.
 
Based upon current interpretations of existing law, certain of our subsidiaries currently collect and remit sales or use tax only on sales of products or services to residents of the states in which the respective subsidiaries have a physical presence or have voluntarily registered for sales tax collection. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that states, absent Congressional legislation, may not impose tax collection obligations on an out-of-state direct marketer whose only contacts with the taxing state are distribution of catalogs and other advertisement materials through the mail, and whose subsequent delivery of purchased goods is by mail or interstate common carriers. However, we cannot predict the level of contact with any state which would give rise to future or past tax collection obligations. Additionally, it is possible that federal legislation could be enacted that would permit states to impose sales or use tax collection obligations on out-of-state direct marketers. Furthermore, court cases have upheld tax collection obligations on companies, including mail order companies, whose contacts with the taxing state were quite limited (e.g., visiting the state several times a year to aid customers or to inspect stores stocking their goods or to provide training or other support to customers in the state). States have also successfully imposed sales and use tax collection responsibility upon in-state manufacturers that agree to act as a drop shipper for the out-of-state marketer, giving rise to the risk that such taxes may be imposed indirectly on the out-of-state seller. We believe our operations in states in which we have no physical presence are different from the operations of the companies in those cases and are thus not subject to the tax collection obligations imposed by those decisions. Various state laws, regulations and taxing authorities have sought to impose on direct marketers with no physical presence in the taxing state the burden of collecting or reporting information related to state sales and use taxes on the sale of products shipped or services sold to those states’ residents, and it is possible that such a requirement could be imposed in the future. For example, New York recently adopted an affiliate marketing statute and related regulations that impose sales and use tax collection obligations on out-of-state sellers that use certain web-based affiliate marketing relationships with web-based affiliates deemed to be located in New York. Other states have proposed similar legislation. There can be no assurance that existing or future laws that impose taxes or other regulations on direct marketing or Internet commerce would not substantially impair our growth or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results or operations and financial condition.
 
In addition, we and our subsidiaries may be subject to state or local taxes on income or (in states such as Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Texas or Washington) on gross receipts or a similar measure earned in a state even though we and our subsidiaries may have no physical presence in the state. State and local governments may seek to impose such taxes in cases where they believe the taxpayer may have a significant economic presence by reason of significant sales to customers located in the states. The responsibility to pay income and gross receipts taxes has also been the subject of court actions and various legislative efforts. There can be no assurance that these taxes will not be imposed upon us and our subsidiaries.
 
We also are subject to general business laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations specifically governing companies that do business over the Internet. These laws and regulations may cover taxation of eCommerce, user privacy, marketing and promotional practices (including electronic communications with our customers and potential customers), database protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, product safety, the provision of online payment services, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights, data security, unauthorized access (including the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act), and the characteristics and quality of products and services. Additionally, some of our subsidiaries which are government contractors or subcontractors are subject to laws and regulations of the federal government related to companies that sell to the federal government, including but not limited to regulations of the Department of Labor and laws and regulations related to our procurement of products and services and our sales to the government.
 
While we have sought to implement processes, programs and systems in an effort to achieve compliance with existing laws and regulations applicable to our business, many of these laws and regulations are unclear and have yet to be interpreted by courts, or may be subject to conflicting interpretations by courts. Further, no assurances can be given that new laws or regulations will not be enacted or adopted, or that our processes, programs and systems will be sufficient to comply with present or future laws or regulations, which might adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Such existing and future laws and regulations may also impede our business. Additionally, it is not always clear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, trespass, data mining and collection, data security and personal privacy, among other laws, apply to our businesses. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may expose us to liability and costly changes in our business operations, and could reduce customer demand for our products, services and solutions.
 
19





 
The growth and demand for online commerce has and may continue to result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on online companies. These consumer protection laws could result in substantial compliance costs and could decrease our profitability. Further, additional regulation of the Internet may lead to a decrease in Internet usage, which could adversely affect our business. Growing public concern about privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny or litigation. In the past, the FTC has investigated companies that have used personally identifiable information without permission or in violation of a stated privacy policy. If we are accused of violating the stated terms of our privacy policy or of data breach violations, we may face a loss of customers or damage to our reputation and may be forced to expend significant amounts of financial and managerial resources to defend against these accusations, face potential liability and be subject to extended regulatory oversight in the form of a long-term consent order.
 
Data security laws are also becoming more widespread and burdensome in the United States, and increasingly require notification of affected individuals and, in some instances, regulators. Moreover, third parties are engaging in increased cyber-attacks and other data theft efforts, and individuals are increasingly subjected to theft of identity, medical or credit card or other financial account information. In addition to risks we face from cyber attacks or data theft efforts directly targeted at our systems, we offer our products, services and solutions to companies, such as healthcare or financial institutions, under contracts which may expose us to significant liabilities for data breaches or losses which could arise out of or result from products, services or solutions we may sell to these institutions. There is a risk that we may fail to prevent such data theft or data breaches and that our customers or others may assert claims against us as a result. In addition, the FTC and state consumer protection authorities have brought a number of enforcement actions against U.S. companies for alleged deficiencies in those companies’ data security practices, and they may continue to bring such actions. Enforcement actions, which may or may not be based upon actual cyber attacks or other breaches in  data security, present an ongoing risk to us, could result in a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and monetary damages.
 
Additionally, although historically only a small percentage of our total sales in any given quarter or year are made to customers outside of the continental United States, there is a possibility that a foreign jurisdiction may take the position that our business is subject to its laws and regulations, which could impose restrictions or burdens on us and expose us to tax and other potential liabilities and could also require costly changes to our business operations with respect to those jurisdictions. In some cases, our sales related to foreign jurisdictions could also be subject to export control laws and foreign corrupt practice laws and there is a risk that we could face allegations from U.S. or foreign governmental authorities alleging our failure to comply with the requirements of such laws subjecting us to costly litigation and potential significant governmental penalties or fines.
 
Part of our business strategy includes the acquisition of other companies, and we may have difficulties integrating acquired companies into our operations in a cost-effective manner, if at all.
 
One element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, personnel or technologies that allow us to complement our existing operations, expand our market coverage, or add new business capabilities. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets. Our acquisition strategy depends on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and our ability to resolve challenges associated with integrating acquired businesses into our existing business. No assurance can be given that the benefits or synergies we may expect from the acquisition of companies or businesses will be realized to the extent or in the time frame we anticipate. We may lose key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans. In addition, acquisitions may involve a number of risks and difficulties, including expansion into new geographic markets and business areas, the diversion of management’s attention to the operations and personnel of the acquired company, the integration of the acquired company’s personnel, operations and management information (ERP) systems, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, and potential short-term adverse effects on our operating results. These challenges can be magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Any delays or unexpected costs incurred in connection with the integration of acquired companies or otherwise related to the acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or other contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, the recording and later amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, and the refinement or revision of fair value acquisition estimates following the completion of acquisitions, any of which items could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline.
 
20





 
An acquisition could absorb substantial cash resources, require us to incur or assume debt obligations, or involve our issuance of additional equity securities. If we issue equity securities in connection with an acquisition, we may dilute our common stock with securities that have an equal or a senior interest in our company. If we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition, it may significantly reduce amounts that would otherwise be available under our credit facility, increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements and could negatively impact our ability to comply with applicable financial covenants in our credit facility or limit our ability to obtain credit from our vendors. Acquired entities also may be highly leveraged or dilutive to our earnings per share, or may have unknown liabilities. In addition, the combined entity may have lower revenues or higher expenses and therefore may not achieve the anticipated results. Any of these factors relating to acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement or sustain our acquisition strategy or that our strategy will ultimately prove profitable.
 
If goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.
 
The purchase price allocation for our historical acquisitions resulted in a material amount allocated to goodwill and intangible assets. In accordance with GAAP, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We review the fair values of our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and test them for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant non-cash charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
Significant negative industry or economic trends, including decreases in our market capitalization, slower growth rates or lack of growth in our business, resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in fiscal 2008 and 2011. While no such write-downs or charges occurred in fiscal 2009 or fiscal 2010, if such occur in the future it may indicate that additional impairment charges are required. If we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, the testing of goodwill for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about the future performance and cash flows of our company, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition, or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about our business and future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more reporting units, resulting in an impairment charge.
 
We may not be able to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.
 
Our ability to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis given our planned business strategy depends upon a number of factors, including but not limited to our ability to achieve and maintain vendor relationships, procure merchandise and fulfill orders in an efficient manner, leverage our fixed cost structure, maintain adequate levels of vendor consideration and price protection, maintain a well-balanced product and customer mix, maintain customer acquisition costs and shipping costs at acceptable levels, and our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace with our competitors. Our ability to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis will also depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain adequate levels of revenue. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, and we may not be able to quickly reduce spending if our revenue is lower than what we project. In addition, we may find that our business plan costs more to execute than what we currently anticipate. Some of the factors that affect our ability to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis are beyond our control, including general economic trends and uncertainties.
 
The effect of accounting rules for stock-based compensation may materially adversely affect our consolidated operating results, our stock price and our ability to hire, retain and motivate employees.
 
We use employee stock options and other stock-based compensation to hire, retain and motivate certain of our employees. Current accounting rules require us to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation (including stock options) at fair value as of the date of grant and to recognize these costs as expenses in our consolidated statements of operations. The recognition of non-cash stock-based compensation expenses in our consolidated statements of operations has had and will likely continue to have a negative effect on our consolidated operating results, including our net income and earnings per share, which could negatively impact our stock price. Additionally, if we reduce or alter our use of stock-based compensation to reduce these expenses and their impact, our ability to hire, motivate and retain certain employees could be adversely affected and we may need to increase the cash compensation we pay to these employees.
 
21





 
Our operating results are difficult to predict and may adversely affect our stock price.
 
Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which we cannot control. We operate in a highly dynamic industry and future results could be subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations could cause us to fail to meet or exceed financial expectations of investors or analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline rapidly and significantly. Revenue and expenses in future periods may be greater or less than revenue and expenses in the immediately preceding period or in the comparable period of the prior year. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include:
 
·             the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to any expansion of our business operations and infrastructure;
·             price competition that results in lower sales volumes, lower profit margins, or net losses;
·             the availability of vendor programs, authorizations or certifications;
·                our ability to attract and retain key personnel and the related costs,
·             the amount and timing of advertising and marketing costs;
·             our ability to successfully integrate operations and technologies from any past or future acquisitions or other business combinations;
·             revisions or refinements of fair value estimates relating to acquisitions or other business combinations;
·             changes in the number of visitors to our websites or our inability to convert those visitors into customers;
·             technical difficulties, including system or Internet failures;
·             fluctuations in the demand for our products, services or solutions or overstocking or under-stocking of our products;
·             introduction of new or enhanced products, services or solutions by us or our competitors;
·             fluctuations in shipping costs, particularly during the holiday season;
·             changes in the amounts of information technology spending by our customers;
·             economic conditions;
·             foreign currency exchange rates;
·             changes in the mix of products, services or solutions that we sell;
·             fluctuations in levels of inventory theft, damage or obsolescence that we incur; and
·             fluctuations in mail-in rebate redemption rates.
 
If we fail to accurately predict our inventory risk, our gross margins may decline as a result of required inventory write downs due to lower prices obtained from older or obsolete products.
 
We derive a significant amount of our gross sales from products sold out of inventory at our distribution facilities. We assume the inventory damage, theft and obsolescence risks, as well as price erosion risks for products that are sold out of inventory stocked at our distribution facilities. These risks are especially significant because many of the products we sell are characterized by rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion (e.g., computer hardware, software and consumer electronics), and because our distribution facilities sometimes stock large quantities of particular types of inventory. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and offer products necessary to remain competitive, maintain our gross margins, or avoid or minimize losses related to excess and obsolete inventory. We currently have limited return rights with respect to products we purchase from Apple, HP and certain other vendors, but these rights vary by product line, are subject to specified conditions and limitations, and can be terminated or changed at any time.
 
We may need additional financing and may not be able to raise additional financing on favorable terms or at all, which could increase our costs, limit our ability to grow and dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders.
 
We require substantial working capital to fund our business. We believe that our current working capital, including our existing cash balance, together with our expected future cash flows from operations and available borrowing capacity under our existing credit facility, which functions as a working capital line of credit, will be adequate to support our current operating plans for at least the next twelve months. However, if we need additional financing, such as for acquisitions or expansion of our business or the businesses of our subsidiaries or to finance our operations during a significant downturn in sales or an increase in operating expenses, there are no assurances that adequate financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We may in the future seek additional financing from public or private debt or equity financings to fund additional expansion, or take advantage of strategic opportunities or favorable market conditions. There can be no assurance such financings will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. To the extent any
 
22





 
such financings involve the issuance of equity securities, existing stockholders could suffer dilution. If we raise additional financing through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our common stock and our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interests. If additional financing is required but not available, we would have to implement further measures to conserve cash and reduce costs. However, there is no assurance that such measures would be successful. Our failure to raise required additional financing could adversely affect our ability to maintain, develop or enhance our product offerings, take advantage of future strategic opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or continue operations.
 
Recently, there were substantial disruptions in the capital and credit markets related to the global economic environment. While we were recently able to renew our credit facility on terms acceptable to us, economic volatility and geopolitical uncertainty could result in further disruptions of the capital and credit markets. Problems in these areas could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future financing if we need additional funds, such as for acquisitions or expansion, to fund changes in our sales or an increase in our operating expenses, or to take advantage of strategic opportunities or favorable market conditions. We may seek additional financing from public or private debt or equity issuances; however, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available at acceptable terms, if at all. Also, there can be no assurance that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by disruptions in the capital and credit markets.
 
Rising interest rates could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.
 
A significant portion of our working capital requirements has historically been funded through borrowings under our credit facility, which functions as a working capital line of credit and bears interest at variable rates, tied to the LIBOR or prime rate. In connection with and as part of the line of credit, we also entered into a term note, bearing interest at the same rate as our credit facility but which we currently expect to pay in full in the event our recently announced sale of our retail building in Santa Monica closes in accordance with the terms of the related purchase and sale agreement. We have also entered into financing arrangements with variable interest rates in connection with our acquisition of real property. If the variable interest rates on our borrowings increase, we could incur greater interest expense than we have in the past. Rising interest rates, and our increased interest expense that would result from them, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.
 
We may be subject to claims regarding our intellectual property, including our business processes, or the products, services or solutions we sell, any of which could result in expensive litigation, distract our management or force us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements.
 
Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our business or the technologies we use or sell infringe on their intellectual property rights. As a result, we may be subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert additional claims of infringement against us in the future or whether any future claims will prevent us from offering popular products or operating our business as planned. If we are forced to defend against any third-party infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could result in the imposition of a preliminary injunction preventing us from continuing to operate our business as currently conducted throughout the duration of the litigation or distract our technical and management personnel. If we are found to infringe, we may be required to pay monetary damages, which could include treble damages and attorneys’ fees for any infringement that is found to be willful, and either be enjoined or required to pay ongoing royalties with respect to any technologies found to infringe. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license technology to us, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing technology, which could be costly and time consuming, or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are enjoined or required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms on a timely basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. Similarly, we may be required incur substantial monetary and diverted resource costs in order to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement by others.
 
Furthermore, we sell products and solutions manufactured and distributed by third parties, some of which may be defective. If any product or solution that we sell were to cause physical injury or damage to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us as the retailer of the product or solution. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could expose us to significant liability. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could decrease our profitability.
 
23





 
Costs and other factors associated with pending or future litigation could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
From time to time we receive claims and become subject to litigation, including consumer protection, employment, intellectual property and other litigation related to the conduct of our business. Additionally, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings against third parties to protect our interests. Any litigation that we become a party to could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. In connection with any such litigation, we may be subject to significant damages or equitable remedies relating to the operation of our business and could incur significant costs in asserting, defending, or settling any such litigation. We cannot determine with any certainty the costs or outcome of pending or future litigation. Any such litigation may materially harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.
 
We may fail to expand our product, services and solutions categories and offerings or our websites or our processing systems in a cost-effective and timely manner as may be required to efficiently operate our business.
 
We may be required to expand or change our product, services and solutions categories or offerings, our websites or our processing systems in order to compete in our highly competitive and rapidly changing industry or to efficiently operate our business. Any failure on our part to expand or change the way we do business in a cost-effective and timely manner in response to any such requirements would likely adversely affect our operating results, financial condition or future prospects. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing any such changes when and if they are required.
 
We have generated substantial portions of our revenue in the past from the sale of computer hardware, software and accessories and consumer electronics products. Expansion into new product, service and solutions categories, including for example our efforts to grow our value-added services and solutions, may require us to incur significant marketing expenses, develop relationships with new vendors and comply with new regulations. We may lack the necessary expertise in a new category to realize the expected benefits of that new category. These requirements could strain our managerial, financial and operational resources. Additional challenges that may affect our ability to expand into new product, service or solutions categories include our ability to:
 
·             establish or increase awareness of our new brands and product, service and solutions categories;
·             acquire, attract and retain customers at a reasonable cost;
·             achieve and maintain a critical mass of customers and orders across all of our product categories;
·             attract a sufficient number of new customers to whom any new categories and offerings are targeted;
·             successfully market our new categories or offerings to existing customers;
·             maintain or improve our gross margins and fulfillment costs;
·             attract and retain vendors to provide expanded lines of products, services or solutions to our customers on terms that are acceptable to us; and
·             manage our inventory in new product categories.
 
We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully address any or all of these challenges in a manner that will enable us to expand our business into new categories in a cost-effective or timely manner. If our new categories are not received favorably, or if our suppliers fail to meet our customers’ expectations, our results of operations would suffer and our reputation and the value of the applicable new brand and our other brands could be damaged. The lack of market acceptance of our new categories or our inability to generate satisfactory revenue from any such expanded offerings to offset their cost could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel such as senior management, sales, services and solutions personnel or information technology specialists.
 
Our future performance will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of certain key management and other personnel, including Frank F. Khulusi, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other executive officers and senior management. The loss of service of one or more of our key management members could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success and plans for future growth will also depend in part on our management’s continuing ability to hire, train and retain skilled personnel in all areas of our business such as sales, service and solutions personnel and IT personnel. For example, our management information systems and processes require the services of employees with extensive knowledge of these systems and processes and the business environment in which we operate, and in order to successfully implement and operate our systems and processes we must be able to attract and retain a significant number of information technology specialists. We may not be able to attract, train and retain the skilled personnel required to, among other things, implement, maintain, and operate our information systems and processes, and any failure to do so would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations.
 
24





 
If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports in a timely manner or prevent financial fraud.
 
We monitor and periodically test our internal control procedures. We may from time to time identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in a timely or cost-effective manner. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports on a timely basis or prevent financial fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly.
 
Any inability to effectively manage our growth may prevent us from successfully expanding our business.
 
The growth of our business has required us to make significant additions in personnel and has significantly increased our working capital requirements. Although we have experienced significant sales growth in the past, such growth should not be considered indicative of future sales growth. Such growth has resulted in new and increased responsibilities for our management personnel and has placed and continues to place significant strain upon our management, operating and financial systems, and other resources. Any future growth, whether organic or through acquisition, may result in increased strain. There can be no assurance that current or future strain will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to attract or retain sufficient personnel to continue the expansion of our operations. Also crucial to our success in managing our growth will be our ability to achieve additional economies of scale. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve such economies of scale, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Our advertising and marketing efforts may be costly and may not achieve desired results.
 
We incur substantial expense in connection with our advertising and marketing efforts. Although we target our advertising and marketing efforts on current and potential customers who we believe are likely to be in the market for the products we sell, we cannot assure you that our advertising and marketing efforts will achieve our desired results. In 2012, we expect to begin the process of unifying our commercial brands. While we believe this unification will lead to an improved customer experience, operational synergies and benefits to all of our stakeholders, we are unable to quantify any synergies or expected costs related to our rebranding strategy. In addition, we periodically adjust our advertising expenditures in an effort to optimize the return on such expenditures. Any decrease in the level of our advertising expenditures which may be made to optimize such return could adversely affect our sales.
 
We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition.
 
Business customers who qualify are provided credit terms and while we monitor individual customer payment capability and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts, we have exposure to credit risk in the event that customers fail to meet their payment obligations. Additionally, to the degree that the ongoing tightness in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to meet their payment obligations to us could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
 
Increased product returns or a failure to accurately predict product returns could decrease our revenue and impact profitability.
 
We make allowances for product returns in our consolidated financial statements based on historical return rates. We are responsible for returns of certain products ordered through our catalogs and websites from our distribution center, as well as products that are shipped to our customers directly from our vendors. If our actual product returns significantly exceed our allowances for returns, our revenue and profitability could decrease. In addition, because our allowances are based on historical return rates, the introduction of new merchandise categories, new products, changes in our product mix, or other factors may cause actual returns to exceed return allowances, perhaps significantly. In addition, any policies that we adopt that are intended to reduce the number of product returns may result in customer dissatisfaction and fewer repeat customers.
 
Our business may be harmed by fraudulent activities on our websites, including fraudulent credit card transactions.
 
We have received in the past, and anticipate that we will receive in the future, communications from customers due to purported fraudulent activities on our websites, including fraudulent credit card transactions. Negative publicity generated as a result of fraudulent conduct by third parties could damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand name. Fraudulent activities on our websites could also subject us to losses and could lead to scrutiny from lawmakers and regulators regarding the operation of our websites. We expect to continue to receive requests from customers for reimbursement due to purportedly fraudulent activities or threats of legal action against us if no reimbursement is made.
 
25





 
We may be liable for misappropriation of our customers’ personal information.
 
If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or credit card information, or such information for which our customers may be responsible and for which we agree to be responsible in connection with service contracts we may enter, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to any such personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. Other liability could include claims alleging misrepresentation or our privacy and data security practices. Any such liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have been investigating various Internet companies regarding whether they misused or inadequately secured personal information regarding consumers. We could incur additional expenses if new laws or regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices.
 
We seek to rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could cause us to incur significant expense to investigate and respond to a security breach and correct any problems caused by any breach, subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand-name.
 
Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may adversely affect the growth of our Internet business or our marketing efforts.
 
We mail catalogs and send electronic messages to names in our proprietary customer database and to potential customers whose names we obtain from rented or exchanged mailing lists. Worldwide public concern regarding personal privacy has subjected the rental and use of customer mailing lists and other customer information to increased scrutiny and regulation. As a result, we are subject to increasing regulation relating to privacy and the use of personal information. For example, we are subject to various telemarketing and anti-spam laws that regulate the manner in which we may solicit future suppliers and customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may increase the cost of operating and growing our business. In addition, several states have proposed legislation that would limit the uses of personal information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. The Federal Trade Commission has adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under 13 years of age. Bills proposed in Congress would expand online privacy protections already provided to adults. Moreover, both in the United States and elsewhere, laws and regulations are becoming increasingly protective of consumer privacy, with a trend toward requiring companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, to obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information, and to provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by companies. Such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, and efforts to enforce such laws and regulations, may restrict our ability to collect, use or transfer demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts. Further, any violation of domestic or foreign privacy or data protection laws and regulations, including the national do-not-call list, may subject us to fines, penalties and damages, which could decrease our revenue and profitability.
 
The security risks of eCommerce may discourage customers from purchasing products, services or solutions from us.
 
In order for the eCommerce market to be successful, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data. Any breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of our websites and choose not to purchase from our websites. If someone is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Concerns about the security and privacy of transactions over the Internet could inhibit the growth of Internet usage and eCommerce. Our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to our information. Any security breach could expose us to risks of loss, litigation and liability and could seriously damage our reputation, disrupt our operations and require the devotion of significant management, financial and other resources to remedy the breach and comply with applicable notice and other legal requirements in connection therewith.
 
26





 
Credit card fraud could decrease our revenue and profitability.
 
We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our revenues or increase our operating costs. We may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. Under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions. If we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, or if credit card companies require more burdensome terms or refuse to accept credit card charges from us, our revenue and profitability could decrease.
 
Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters or other catastrophic events.
 
Our headquarters, customer service center and a part of our infrastructure, including computer servers, are located near Los Angeles, California and in other areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, floods, severe weather and other natural disasters. Our distribution facilities, which are located in Memphis, Tennessee, Irvine, California and Lewis Center, Ohio, house the product inventory from which a substantial majority of our orders are shipped, and are also in areas that are susceptible to natural disasters and extreme weather conditions such as earthquakes, fire, floods and major storms. Our operations in the Philippines are also in an area that is periodically subject to extreme weather. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, terrorist attack or other comparable events in the areas in which we operate could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. Our systems, including our management information systems, websites and telephone system, are not fully redundant, and we do not have redundant geographic locations or earthquake insurance. Further, California periodically experiences power outages as a result of insufficient electricity supplies. These outages may recur in the future and could disrupt our operations. We currently are in process of developing a formal disaster recovery plan and certain of our subsidiaries have geographical redundancies for web and critical information systems. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur.
 
We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver the products we sell.
 
We rely upon third party carriers, especially FedEx and UPS, for timely delivery of our product shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including employee strikes, inclement weather and increased fuel costs. Any failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and brand and could cause us to lose customers. We do not have a written long-term agreement with any of these third party carriers, and we cannot be sure that these relationships will continue on terms favorable to us, if at all. If our relationship with any of these third party carriers is terminated or impaired, or if any of these third parties are unable to deliver products for us, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to our customers. We may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, if at all. Potential adverse consequences include:
 
·             reduced visibility of order status and package tracking;
·             delays in order processing and product delivery;
·             increased cost of delivery, resulting in reduced margins; and
·             reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged products and customer dissatisfaction.
 
Furthermore, shipping costs represent a significant operational expense for us. Any future increases in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors, which include some of our largest vendors.
 
The business of direct marketing of the products, services and solutions we sell is highly competitive and driven in large part by price, product, service and solutions availability, speed and accuracy of delivery and performance, effectiveness of sales and marketing programs, credit availability, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and breadth of product lines and services, availability of talented sales and service personnel and the availability of technical information. We compete with other direct marketers, including CDW, Insight Enterprises and PC Connection. In addition, we compete with large value added resellers such as CompuCom Systems and World Wide Technology, and computer retail stores and resellers, including superstores such as Best Buy and Staples, certain hardware and software vendors such as Apple and Dell Computer that sell or are increasing sales directly to end users, online resellers such as Amazon.com, Newegg.com and TigerDirect.com, government resellers such as GTSI, CDWG and GovConnection, software focused resellers such as Soft Choice and Software House International and other direct marketers and value added resellers of hardware, software and computer-related and electronic products. Our daily deals offerings compete with larger market participants such as Groupon and LivingSocial. In the direct marketing, daily deal and Internet retail industries, barriers to entry are relatively low and the risk of new competitors entering the market is high. Certain of our existing competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we have. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively against existing competitors, consolidations of competitors or new competitors that may enter the market.
 
27





 
Furthermore, the manner in which our products, services and solutions are distributed and sold is changing, and new methods of sale and distribution have emerged and serve an increasingly large portion of the market. Computer hardware and software OEM vendors have sold, and may intensify their efforts to sell, their products directly to end users. From time to time, certain OEM vendors, including Apple and HP, have instituted programs for the direct sale of large quantities of hardware and software to certain large business accounts. These types of programs may continue to be developed and used by various OEM vendors. Software publishers also may attempt to increase the volume of software products distributed electronically directly to end users’ personal computers. Any of these competitive programs, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Our success is tied to the continued use of the Internet and the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure.
 
The level of sales generated from our websites, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our net sales, continues to be material to our operating results. Our Internet sales are dependent upon customers continuing to use the Internet in addition to traditional means of commerce to purchase products and services. Widespread use of the Internet could decline as a result of disruptions, computer viruses, data security threats, privacy issues or other damage to Internet servers or users’ computers. If consumer use of the Internet to purchase products, services or solutions declines in any significant way, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
The success of our Canadian call center is dependent, in part, on our receipt of government labor credits.
 
We maintain a Canadian call center serving the U.S. market, which has historically received the benefit of labor credits under a Canadian government program. In 2007, we received an eligibility certificate to participate in the Investment Quebec Refundable Tax Credit for Major Employment Generating Projects (GPCE), replacing the prior government subsidy program which ended at the end of 2007. In addition to other eligibility requirements under the replacement program, which extends through fiscal year 2016, we will be required to maintain a minimum of 317 eligible employees employed by our subsidiary PC Mall Canada, Inc. in the province of Quebec at all times to remain eligible to apply annually for these labor credits. The success of our Canadian call center is dependent, in part, on our receipt of the government labor credits we expect to receive. If we do not receive these expected labor credits, or a sufficient portion of them, the costs of operating our Canadian call center may exceed the benefits it provides us and our operating results would likely suffer.
 
We are exposed to the risks of business and other conditions in the Asia Pacific region.
 
All or portions of certain of the products we sell are produced, or have major components produced, in the Asia Pacific region. We engage in U.S. dollar denominated transactions with U.S. divisions and subsidiaries of companies located in that region as well. As a result, we may be indirectly affected by risks associated with international events, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tariffs and taxes, availability of products, natural disasters and currency fluctuations in the U.S. dollar versus the regional currencies. In the past, countries in the Asia Pacific region have experienced volatility in their currency, banking and equity markets. Future volatility could adversely affect the supply and price of the products we sell and their components and ultimately, our results of operations.
 
In 2005, we opened an office in the Philippines and we may increase these and other offshore operations in the future. Establishing offshore operations may entail considerable expense before we realize cost savings, if any, from these initiatives. Our limited operating history in the Philippines, as well as the risks associated with doing business overseas and international events, could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from our Philippines operations or any other offshore operations that we establish.
 
The increasing significance of our foreign operations exposes us to risks that are beyond our control and could affect our ability to operate successfully.
 
In order to enhance the cost-effectiveness of our operations, we have increasingly sought to shift portions of our operations to jurisdictions with lower cost structures than that available in the United States. The transition of even a portion of our business operations to new facilities in a foreign country involves a number of logistical and technical challenges that could result in operational interruptions, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. We may encounter complications associated with the set-up, migration and operation of business systems and equipment in a new facility. This could result in disruptions that could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations.
 
28





 
To the extent that we shift any operations or labor offshore to jurisdictions with lower cost structures, we may experience challenges in effectively managing those operations as a result of several factors, including time zone differences and regulatory, legal, cultural and logistical issues. Additionally, the relocation of labor resources may have a negative impact on our existing employees, which could negatively impact our operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our offshore personnel and any other offshore operations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
We cannot be certain that any shifts in our operations to offshore jurisdictions will ultimately produce the expected cost savings. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, future labor rates, or monetary and economic conditions in any offshore locations where we may operate. Although some of these factors may influence our decision to establish or increase our offshore operations, there are inherent risks beyond our control, including:
 
·             political unrest or uncertainties;
·             wage inflation;
·             exposure to foreign currency fluctuations;
·             tariffs and other trade barriers; and
·             foreign regulatory restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory environments.
 
We will likely be faced with competition in these offshore markets for qualified personnel, and we expect this competition to increase as other companies expand their operations offshore. If the supply of such qualified personnel becomes limited due to increased competition or otherwise, it could increase our costs and employee turnover rates. One or more of these factors or other factors relating to foreign operations could result in increased operating expenses and make it more difficult for us to manage our costs and operations, which could cause our operating results to decline and result in reduced revenues.
 
International operations expose us to currency exchange risk and we cannot predict the effect of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business and operating results.
 
We have operation centers in Canada and the Philippines that provide back-office administrative support and customer service support. Our international operations are sensitive to currency exchange risks. We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, as well as intercompany transactions. Significant changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies in which we transact business and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have not entered into any hedging activities, and, to the extent that we continue not to do so in the future, we may be vulnerable to the effects of currency exchange-rate fluctuations.
 
In addition, our international operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our foreign operations to the U.S. dollar. Although the effect of currency fluctuations on our financial statements has not generally been material in the past, there can be no guarantee that the effect of currency fluctuations will not be material in the future.
 
We are subject to risks associated with consolidation within our industry.
 
Many technology resellers are consolidating operations and acquiring or merging with other resellers, direct marketers and providers of information technology solutions to achieve economies of scale, expanded product and service offerings, and increased efficiency. The current industry reconfiguration and the trend towards consolidation could cause the industry to become even more competitive, further increase pricing pressures and make it more difficult for us to maintain our operating margins or to increase or maintain the same level of net sales or gross profit. Declining prices, resulting in part from technological changes, may require us to sell a greater number of products, services or solutions to achieve the same level of net sales and gross profit. Such a trend could make it more difficult for us to continue to increase our net sales and earnings growth. In addition, growth in the information technology market has slowed. If the growth rate of the information technology market were to further decrease, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.
 
If we are unable to provide satisfactory customer service, we could lose customers or fail to attract new customers.
 
Our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer service operations. Any material disruption or slowdown in our order processing systems resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, upgrading our management information systems, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. Furthermore, we may be unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of competent customer service representatives and relationship managers for our business customers, each of which is essential in creating a favorable interactive customer experience. If we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing and training for our customer service operations, our reputation could be seriously harmed and we could lose customers or fail to attract new customers. In addition, if our e-mail and telephone call volumes exceed our present system capacities, we could experience delays in placing orders, responding to customer inquiries and addressing customer concerns. Because our success depends largely on keeping our customers satisfied, any failure to provide high levels of customer service would likely impair our reputation and decrease our revenues.
 
29





 
Our stock price may be volatile.
 
We believe that certain factors, such as sales of our common stock into the market by existing stockholders, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, changes in market conditions affecting stocks of computer hardware and software manufacturers and resellers generally and companies in the Internet and eCommerce industries in particular, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Other factors that could affect our stock price include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
·             failure to meet investors’ expectations regarding our operating performance;
·             changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or estimates of our financial performance;
·             publication of research reports by analysts;
·             changes in market valuations of similar companies;
·             announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;
·             actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;
·             litigation developments; and
·             general economic and market conditions or other economic factors unrelated to our performance, including disruptions in the capital and credit markets.
 
The stock market in general, and the stocks of computer and software resellers, and companies in the Internet and electronic commerce industries in particular, and other technology or related stocks, have in the past experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have been unrelated to corporate operating performance. Such market volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if asserted against us, could result in substantial costs to us and cause a likely diversion of our management’s attention from the operations of our company.
 
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
 
None.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
Our principal facilities at December 31, 2011 were as follows:
 



Description 

  

Sq. Ft. 

  

Location  


Main   Distribution Center 

  

212,000 

  

Memphis,   TN  


SARCOM   Headquarters, Sales Office and Warehouse/Distribution Center 

  

144,000 

  

Lewis   Center, OH  


PC   Mall Corporate Headquarters and Sales Office 

  

83,864 

  

El   Segundo, CA  


Irvine   Sales Office and Warehouse/Distribution Center 

  

60,072 

  

Irvine,   CA  


Canadian   Office 

  

45,128 

  

Montreal,   Quebec  


Chicago   Office 

  

28,074 

  

Chicago, Illinois  


Philippines   Office 

  

25,134 

  

Mandaluyong   City, Philippines  


Retail   Store — Torrance 

  

10,018 

  

Torrance,   CA  


Retail   Store — Santa Monica 

  

9,750 

  

Santa   Monica, CA  


Retail   Store — Huntington Beach 

  

6,000 

  

Huntington   Beach, CA  


Wisconsin   Sales Office 

  

4,887 

  

Menomonee   Falls, WI   
 
We lease each of our principal facilities, except for the PC Mall Corporate Headquarters and Sales Office and the Santa Monica, California retail store, both of which we own. Our distribution centers include shipping, receiving, warehousing and administrative spaces. All of our segments, except our MacMall and OnSale segments, use all the properties described above. Our MacMall and OnSale segments use each of the properties described above except for the Lewis Center, Ohio office, the Irvine, California office and the Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin office. Further, our OnSale segment does not use any of the retail stores. In addition to the properties listed above, we lease sales offices in various cities in the U.S.
 
In March 2012, we opened a 6,211 square feet, new retail store in Chicago, Illinois.  This space is leased.
 
30





 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
We are not currently a party to any material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business. From time to time, we receive claims of and become subject to consumer protection, employment, intellectual property and other litigation related to the conduct of our business. Any such litigation, including the litigation discussed above, could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. In connection with any such litigation, we may be subject to significant damages or equitable remedies relating to the operation of our business. Any such litigation may materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
 
Not applicable.
 
***
 
31





 
PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 
Our common stock has been publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Market (formerly known as Nasdaq National Market) under the symbol “MALL” since our initial public offering on April 4, 1995. The following table sets forth the range of high and low sales price per share for our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market.
 



  

  

Price Range of Common Stock 

   


  

  

High 

  

Low 

   


Year Ended December 31,   2011 

  

  

  

  

   


First Quarter  

  

$ 

10.98 

  

$ 

6.50 

   


Second Quarter  

  

10.50 

  

7.06 

   


Third Quarter  

  

8.35 

  

4.80 

   


Fourth Quarter  

  

6.32 

  

4.86 

   


Year Ended December 31,   2010 

  

  

  

  

   


First Quarter  

  

$ 

5.67 

  

$ 

4.40 

   


Second Quarter  

  

6.05 

  

3.88 

   


Third Quarter  

  

7.24 

  

3.20 

   


Fourth Quarter  

  

7.88 

  

5.22 

    
 
As of the close of business on March 9, 2012, there were approximately 26 holders of record of our common stock.
 
We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and our credit facility prohibits us from paying any cash dividends on our capital stock. Therefore, we do not currently anticipate paying dividends; we intend to retain any earnings to finance the growth and development of our business.
 
Information regarding compensation plans under which our equity securities may be issued is included in Item 12 of Part III of this report through incorporation by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
A summary of the repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2011 is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 



  

  

Total Number of   Shares Purchased 

  

Average Price   Paid Per Share 

  

Total Number of   Shares Purchased   as Part of   Publicly   Announced Plans   or Programs 

  

Maximum Dollar   Value that May   Yet Be Purchased   Under the Plans   or Programs 

   


October 1, 2011 to October 31, 2011 

  

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

— 

  

$ 

1,579 

   


November 1, 2011 to November 30, 2011 

  

55,573 

  

5.31 

  

55,573 

  

1,282 

   


December 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

  

   


Total 

  

55,573 

  

5.31 

  

55,573 

  

  

   












  
 
In October 2008, our Board of Directors approved a discretionary common stock repurchase program for up to $10 million of our common stock in aggregate with all other repurchases made under any repurchase programs following the date of such Board of Directors’ approval. This repurchase program effectively superseded an earlier repurchase program adopted in 1996. Under this new program, the shares may be repurchased from time to time at prevailing market prices, through open market or unsolicited negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. We expect that the repurchase of our common stock under this new program will be financed with existing working capital and amounts available under our existing credit facility. No limit was placed on the duration of the repurchase program. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that we will repurchase. Subject to applicable securities laws, repurchases may be made at such times and in such amounts as our management deems appropriate. The program can also be discontinued at any time management feels additional purchases are not warranted.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased a total of 432,012 shares of our common stock under this program for a cost of $2.6 million. From the inception of the program in October 2008 through December 31, 2011, we have repurchased an aggregate total of 1,956,506 shares of our common stock for a total cost of $8.7 million. The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock.
 
32





 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in any of the Company’s filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that might incorporate future filings, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in whole or in part, the Stock Performance Graph which follows shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any such filings except to the extent that we specifically incorporate any such information into any such future filings.
 
Stock Performance Graph
 
The performance graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return of our company with the cumulative total return of the Nasdaq Stock Market—the Nasdaq Composite Index and the Nasdaq Retail Trade Index. The graph assumes $100 invested at the per-share closing price of our common stock and each of the indices on December 31, 2006. The stock price performance shown in this graph is neither necessarily indicative of nor intended to suggest future stock price performance.
 

 



  

  

Measurement Period (fiscal years covered) 

   


  

  

12/06 

  

12/07 

  

12/08 

  

12/09 

  

12/10 

  

12/11 

   


PC Mall, Inc.  

  

$ 

100.00 

  

$ 

88.33 

  

$ 

38.05 

  

$ 

49.53 

  

$ 

71.82 

  

$ 

59.58 

   


NASDAQ Composite  

  

100.00 

  

110.26 

  

65.65 

  

95.19 

  

112.10 

  

110.81 

   


NASDAQ Retail Trade  

  

100.00 

  

116.94 

  

76.83 

  

130.52 

  

170.95 

  

179.41 

   




















  
 
***
 
33





 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
The following selected consolidated financial data are qualified by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained elsewhere herein.
 
The selected consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 presented below were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere herein. The selected consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 along with the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 presented below were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements which are not included elsewhere herein.
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

2008 

  

2007 

   


  

  

(in thousands, except per share data) 

   


Consolidated Statements of   Operations Data: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

1,455,219 

  

$ 

1,368,314 

  

$ 

1,138,061 

  

$ 

1,327,974 

  

$ 

1,215,433 

   


Cost of goods sold  

  

1,264,731 

  

1,197,019 

  

985,045 

  

1,148,593 

  

1,067,595 

   


Gross profit  

  

190,488 

  

171,295 

  

153,016 

  

179,381 

  

147,838 

   


Selling, general and administrative expenses  

  

181,461 

  

156,827 

  

145,274 

  

155,494 

  

123,520 

   


Special charges (1)(2)  

  

(429 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

4,893 

  

— 

   


Operating profit  

  

9,456 

  

14,468 

  

7,742 

  

18,994 

  

24,318 

   


Interest expense, net  

  

3,284 

  

2,019 

  

1,567 

  

3,667 

  

4,031 

   


Income before income taxes  

  

6,172 

  

12,449 

  

6,175 

  

15,327 

  

20,287 

   


Income tax expense  

  

3,040 

  

4,876 

  

2,818 

  

5,724 

  

7,844 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

3,132 

  

$ 

7,573 

  

$ 

3,357 

  

$ 

9,603 

  

$ 

12,443 

   


Basic and Diluted Earnings Per   Common Share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

$ 

0.26 

  

$ 

0.62 

  

$ 

0.27 

  

$ 

0.72 

  

$ 

0.98 

   


Diluted  

  

0.25 

  

0.61 

  

0.26 

  

0.69 

  

0.90 

    


 



(1)  2011 includes a $1.2 million decrease in the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration liability related to the NSPI acquisition and a $0.8 million write-down of indefinite-lived SARCOM trademark based on reassessment of its remaining useful life in 2011.
(2)  2008 includes a $4.1 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge and a $0.8 million lawsuit settlement charge.
 



  

  

At December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

2008 

  

2007 

   


  

  

(in thousands) 

   


Consolidated Balance Sheet   Data: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash and cash equivalents  

  

$ 

9,484 

  

$ 

10,711 

  

$ 

9,215 

  

$ 

6,748 

  

$ 

6,623 

   


Working capital  

  

45,277 

  

52,638 

  

54,034 

  

50,847 

  

37,264 

   


Total assets  

  

393,272 

  

334,091 

  

301,176 

  

282,385 

  

296,235 

   


Short-term debt  

  

1,015 

  

783 

  

1,038 

  

1,038 

  

775 

   


Line of credit  

  

91,852 

  

50,301 

  

53,127 

  

29,010 

  

53,893 

   


Long-term debt, excluding current portion  

  

8,984 

  

2,666 

  

3,333 

  

4,337 

  

4,456 

   


Total stockholders’ equity  

  

110,826 

  

107,293 

  

97,755 

  

93,551 

  

84,424 

   

















  
 
***
 
34





 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
You should read the following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A and elsewhere in this report.
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
PC Mall, Inc. is a leading value added direct marketer of technology products, services and solutions to businesses, government and educational institutions and individual consumers. We go to market through our dedicated sales force of over 700 account executives. We also offer our products, services and solutions through our field service teams, various direct marketing techniques and a limited number of retail stores. Since our founding in 1987, we have served our customers in part by offering them multi-branded hardware solutions from leading brands including HP, Apple, Cisco, Microsoft and Lenovo. Through us, these and other manufacturers are able to reach multiple customer segments including consumers, small and medium sized businesses, large enterprise businesses, as well as state, local and federal governments and educational institutions. We add additional value to our manufacturer partners by being able to sell, deliver and incorporate their products and services into comprehensive solutions with a high degree of customization. Our model also facilitates an efficient supply chain and support mechanism for manufacturers by using a combination of direct marketing, centralized selling and support and centralized product fulfillment.
 
In conjunction with our eCost.com acquisition, which is discussed in detail below, beginning with the first quarter of 2011, our management considered the OnSale and eCOST businesses together as a separate segment and report their results accordingly, including revising all historical segment financial information reported herein. As such, in 2011, existing sales under the OnSale brand were no longer reported under the MacMall segment. In 2011, we had five operating segments, SMB, MME, Public Sector, MacMall and OnSale. We include corporate related expenses such as legal, accounting, information technology, product management, certain support services and other administrative costs that are not otherwise allocated to our reportable operating segments in Corporate and Other. In 2011, we generated approximately 37% of our revenue in our MME segment, 35% of our revenue in our SMB segment, 13% of our revenue in our MacMall segment, 12% of our revenue in our Public Sector segment and 3% of our revenue in our OnSale segment.
 
Our SMB segment consists of sales made primarily to small and medium sized businesses, generally with less than 1,000 employees. The SMB segment utilizes an outbound phone based sales force and, where applicable, a field-based sales force, together with an online extranet customized for individual customers that enables them to manage their IT procurement process. In addition, the SMB segment markets to small businesses through its Small Business Network utilizing its own social network site at www.pcmallsbn.com.
 
Our MME segment consists of sales made primarily to mid-market and enterprise-sized businesses, generally with more than 1,000 employees, under the SARCOM, NSPI and Abreon brands. The MME segment sells complex products, services and solutions, utilizing a field relationship-based selling model, an outbound phone based sales force, a field service organization and an online extranet.
 
Our Public Sector segment consists of sales made primarily to federal, state and local governments, as well as educational institutions. The Public Sector segment utilizes an outbound phone and field relationship-based selling model, as well as contract and bid business development teams and an online extranet.
 
Our MacMall segment historically included sales made under our MacMall brand name via telephone and the Internet to consumers, small businesses and creative professionals.
 
Our OnSale segment historically included sales made under our OnSale and eCost brand names via the Internet and inbound phone-based sales forces. The OnSale segment has utilized traditional internet marketing as well as our recently developed “daily deals” business model. Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, in response to what we believe to be a rapidly changing way in which consumers shop and go to market, our OnSale segment expanded its business to enter the market for local daily deals through social commerce. As this market and its related customer buying behaviors have continued to evolve, the “daily deals” business model is rapidly expanding to include sales of IT products. In response to these developments, we have determined that our strategic objectives can be best achieved by incorporating the best practices, technologies and methodologies we have developed in our stand alone “daily deals” business into our traditional eCommerce platform and no longer operating a stand alone “daily deals” business. In the first quarter of 2012, we expect to realign our operating segments by consolidating the OnSale and MacMall segments.
 
35





 
We experience variability in our net sales and operating results on a quarterly basis as a result of many factors. We experience some seasonal trends in our sales of technology products, services and solutions to businesses, government and educational institutions and individual customers. For example, the timing of capital budget authorizations for our customers in the small and medium sized business sector and the mid-market and enterprise sector can affect when these companies can procure IT products and services. The fiscal year-ends of Public Sector customers vary for those in the federal government space and those in the state and local government and educational institution (“SLED”) sector. We generally see an increase in our second quarter sales related to customers in the SLED sector and in our third quarter sales related to customers in the federal government space as these customers close out their budgets for their fiscal year. Also, consumer holiday spending contributes to variances in our quarterly results. As such, the results of interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full year.
 
There has been substantial ongoing uncertainty in the global economic environment and recent disruptions in the capital and credit markets. General economic conditions have an effect on our business and results of operations across all of our segments. If economic growth in the U.S. and other countries’ economies slows or declines, government, consumer and business spending rates could be significantly reduced. These developments could also increase the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable from our customers. Continued and future changes and uncertainties in the economic climate in the U.S. and elsewhere could have a similar negative impact on the rate of information technology spending of our current and potential customers, which would likely have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, and could significantly hinder our growth. These factors could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In response to these uncertainties, we have continued to focus our efforts on cost reduction initiatives, competitive pricing strategies and driving higher margin service and solution sales, while continuing to make selective investments in our sales force personnel, service and solutions capabilities and IT infrastructure and tools in an effort to position us for enhanced productivity and future growth.
 
Our planned operating expenditures each quarter are based in large part on sales forecasts for the quarter. If our sales do not meet expectations in any given quarter, our operating results for the quarter may be materially adversely affected. Our narrow gross margins may magnify the impact of these factors on our operating results. Management regularly reviews our operating performance using a variety of financial and non-financial metrics including sales, shipments, gross margin, vendor consideration, advertising expense, personnel costs, account executive productivity, accounts receivable aging, inventory turnover, liquidity and cash resources. Our management monitors the various metrics against goals and budgets, and makes necessary adjustments intended to enhance our performance.
 
A substantial portion of our business is dependent on sales of Apple, HP, and products purchased from other vendors including Adobe, Cisco, IBM, Ingram Micro, Lenovo, Microsoft, Sony, Sun Microsystems and Tech Data. Products manufactured by Apple represented approximately 21%, 21% and 19% of our net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Products manufactured by HP represented approximately 20%, 20% and 19% of our net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
One element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, personnel or technologies that allow us to complement our existing operations, expand our market coverage, or add new business capabilities. While we believe that the fragmented nature of the technology reseller industry and industry consolidation trends may continue to present acquisition opportunities for us, these continued trends may make acquisitions more competitive.
 
We evaluate acquisition opportunities based on our assessment of several factors, including the perceived value of the opportunity, our available financing sources, and potential synergies of the acquisition target with our business. Our ability to complete acquisitions in the future will depend on our ability to fund such acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our existing credit facilities, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. As more fully discussed under “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below, certain trends in our operating results may impact our available cash resources and availability under our credit facilities, which in turn may impact our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy.
 
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS
 
Rebranding Strategy
 
Over the past several years, our company has grown into a multi-billion dollar enterprise in part through our acquisition and internal cultivation of many different brands. We have historically differentiated those brands primarily based on the identity of the customers. After careful examination of the markets we serve and the trends taking shape in the marketplace, we have determined that going forward, our commercial customers can benefit from a more unified and streamlined brand strategy. In 2012, we expect to begin the process of unifying our commercial brands. We believe this unification will lead to an improved customer experience, operational synergies and benefits to all of our stakeholders, providing a brand that better represents the value-added solutions provider we are today.
 
36





 
ERP and Web Infrastructure Upgrades
 
We are currently upgrading many of our IT systems. We have purchased licenses for Microsoft Dynamics AX (Axapta) and other related tools, such as workflow software, web development tools and other related items, to upgrade our ERP and eCommerce systems. We initiated the implementation and upgrade of our eCommerce system in the second half of 2008 and have completed and launched a new generation of our public sites at macmall.com, onsale.com and pcmall.com. We are currently working on the implementation of the ERP modules and the upgrade of the ERP systems, including additional enhancements and features, and we expect to be complete with all phases of the implementation of the ERP systems by 2013. We believe the implementation and upgrade should help us to gain further efficiencies across our organization. Based on our estimates, which are subject to change, we currently expect to incur a total cost of up to $14 million for all these IT system upgrades. To date, we have incurred approximately $10.8 million of such costs. In addition to the above expenditures, we expect on an ongoing basis to make periodic upgrades to our IT systems.
 
In addition to the upgrades to our IT systems, in July 2008, we entered into an agreement with Cisco Systems for the purchase and implementation of various solutions to upgrade our current infrastructure for up to approximately $4.6 million. The purchase is financed through a capital lease over a five year term. Our plan is to provide a unified platform for our entire company and to provide a robust and efficient contact center. We completed the implementation of the Cisco solution across all of our locations in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Real Estate Transactions
 
On February 10, 2012, we announced that we signed a definitive agreement to sell the property we own in Southern California, where one of our retail stores is currently located, for $17.5 million. While there are no guarantees that this transaction will close, we expect to realize a book gain of approximately $15.9 million at the time of closing, which we currently expect to close during the second quarter of 2012. In connection with this sale, we intend to explore potential purchases or exchanges of real estate through Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We expect to effectuate such exchanges through one or more purchases of real property to be used in connection with our business and operations. We expect that any exchanges or purchases we make would benefit us through direct ownership of facilities that are strategic to our operations, reductions in our lease obligations, or other ancillary benefits.
 
On March 11, 2011, we completed the purchase of real property comprising approximately 184,000 square feet of land, which includes approximately 84,000 square feet of office space located at 1940 East Mariposa Avenue, El Segundo, California, which became our new corporate headquarters effective November 14, 2011.  We purchased and have improved this building, located strategically adjacent to the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), because we want it to be a compelling destination for customers who want to experience new and cutting edge IT solutions in person. The new headquarters was designed to drive higher productivity and efficiency for our employees and to provide a state-of-the-art demo center for our customers and vendor partners, as well as increase capacity to support our growth well into the future. In conjunction with the move, we relocated and substantially upgraded our primary data center from Torrance, CA to our own hosting facility in Atlanta, GA, which incorporates state of the art monitoring and disaster recovery capabilities.  As a result of this relocation certain of our subsidiaries now have geographically redundant web and information systems.  We are in the process of developing a formal disaster recovery plan for our critical systems.
 
eCOST.com Acquisition
 
On February 18, 2011, we acquired certain assets, including approximately $1 million of inventory, of eCOST.com, a subsidiary of PFSweb, Inc., for $2.3 million. eCOST.com is an online marketplace featuring an assortment of product categories, including but not limited to computers, networking, electronics and entertainment, TVs, monitors and projectors, cameras and camcorders, memory and storage, apparel, and sports and leisure items. The website also features a proprietary and patented shopping format, Bargain Countdown®, which amongst other features, offers limited time, limited quantity deals, and supports its premium online membership shopping club. eCOST.com commenced business in 1999 as a subsidiary of PC Mall. In September 2004, eCOST.com completed an initial public offering of approximately 19.8% of its outstanding common stock. In April 2005, we completed a spin-off of eCOST.com by distributing all of our remaining ownership interest in eCOST.com to our stockholders. In February 2006, eCOST.com was acquired by PFSweb in a stock for stock merger.
 
NSPI Acquisition
 
In June 2010, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Network Services Plus, Inc. (“NSPI”). NSPI, primarily a provider of hosted data center and managed IT services in the southeastern United States, had approximately 73 employees as of the closing date, 53 of whom are billable IT resources. The terms of the transaction included an initial purchase price of $7.8
 
37





 
million, less a customary hold-back to settle possible indemnity claims. In addition, we extinguished substantially all of NSPI’s indebtedness that existed immediately prior to the closing date of our acquisition. We have recorded identifiable intangible assets of $2.6 million related to customer relationships, $0.5 million related to trademarks and $0.3 million related to a non-compete agreement, with estimated useful lives of 10, 10 and 4 years, respectively. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement, NSPI’s shareholders can earn additional consideration based on the performance of the NSPI business over two years following the acquisition, up to a total of approximately $5.2 million. In accordance with ASC 805, “Purchase Price Allocations” (formerly FAS No. 141R), based on an initial valuation of the fair value of the contingent consideration, we initially recorded additional goodwill and a corresponding liability of $3.2 million for future earnout payments. Such valuation is based upon management’s initial forecasts of expected profitability of NSPI during the earnout period, and will be updated, if necessary, in future periods with adjustments reflected in our consolidated statement of operations.  In 2011, we recorded an adjustment to reduce the earnout liability by $1.2 million to reflect the decrease in estimated fair value of the earnout liability, and such adjustment was reflected as “Revaluation of earnout liability” on our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
Goodwill and Intangible Asset Impairment
 
In accordance with ASC 350-20 (formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”), we performed our annual impairment analysis of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for possible impairment. Our management, with the assistance of an independent third-party valuation firm, determined the fair values of our reporting units and their underlying assets and compared them to their respective carrying values. Based on our analysis, we have determined that no impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets existed as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. However, as of December 31, 2011, we have determined that a SARCOM trademark was impaired as a result of a reassessment of its remaining useful life and recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $0.8 million as “Impairment of indefinite-lived trademark” in our Consolidated Financial Statements. See below under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Goodwill and Intangible Assets” for more information.
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
 
Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates, judgments and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported for future periods may be affected by changes in those estimates, and revisions to estimates are included in our results for the period in which the actual amounts become known.
 
Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if:
 
·             it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made; and
·             changes in the estimate or different estimates that could have been selected could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position.
 
Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. We believe the critical accounting policies described below affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including those discussed below, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Part II, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Revenue Recognition. We adhere to the revised guidelines and principles of sales recognition described in ASC 605 (formerly Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition,” issued by the staff of the SEC as a revision to Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, “Revenue Recognition”). Under ASC 605, product sales are recognized when the title and risk of loss are passed to the customer, there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement for sale, delivery has occurred and/or services have been rendered, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Under these guidelines, the majority of our sales, including revenue from product sales and gross outbound shipping and handling charges, are recognized upon receipt of the product by the customer. In accordance with our revenue recognition policy, we perform an analysis to estimate the number of days products we have shipped are in transit to our customers using data from our third party carriers and other factors. We record an adjustment to reverse the impact of sale transactions based on the estimated value of products that have shipped, but have not yet been received by our customers, and we recognize such amounts in the subsequent period when delivery has occurred. Changes in delivery patterns or unforeseen shipping delays beyond our control could have a material impact on our revenue recognition for the current period.
 
38





 
For all product sales shipped directly from suppliers to customers, we take title to the products sold upon shipment, bear credit risk, and bear inventory risk for returned products that are not successfully returned to suppliers; therefore, these revenues are recognized at gross sales amounts.
 
Certain software assurance or subscription products and extended warranties that we sell (for which we are not the primary obligor) are recognized on a net basis in accordance with ASC 605-45 (formerly Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 99-19, “Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent”). Accordingly, such revenues are recognized in net sales either at the time of sale or over the contract period, based on the nature of the contract, at the net amount retained by us, with no cost of goods sold.
 
When a customer order contains multiple deliverables such as hardware, software and services which are delivered at varying times, we determine whether the delivered items can be considered separate units of accounting as prescribed under ASC 605-25, Revenue Recognition, Multiple-Element Arrangement. For arrangements with multiple units of accounting, arrangement consideration is allocated among the units of accounting, where separable, based on their relative selling price. Relative selling price is determined based on vendor-specific objective evidence, if it exists. Otherwise, third-party evidence of selling price is used, when it is available, and in circumstances when neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence of selling price is available, management’s best estimate of selling price is used.
 
Sales are reported net of estimated returns and allowances, discounts, mail-in rebate redemptions and credit card chargebacks. If the actual sales returns, allowances, discounts, mail-in rebate redemptions or credit card chargebacks are greater than estimated by management, additional expense may be incurred.
 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable based upon estimates of future collection. We extend credit to our customers based upon an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition and credit history, and generally do not require collateral. We regularly evaluate our customers’ financial condition and credit history in determining the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts. We also maintain an allowance for uncollectible vendor receivables, which arise from vendor rebate programs, price protections and other promotions. We determine the sufficiency of the vendor receivable allowance based upon various factors, including payment history. Amounts received from vendors may vary from amounts recorded because of potential non-compliance with certain elements of vendor programs. If the estimated allowance for uncollectible accounts or vendor receivables subsequently proves to be insufficient, additional allowance may be required.
 
Reserve for Inventory Obsolescence. We maintain an allowance for the valuation of our inventory by estimating obsolete or unmarketable inventory based on the difference between inventory cost and market value, which is determined by general market conditions, nature, age and type of each product and assumptions about future demand. We regularly evaluate the adequacy of our inventory reserve. If our inventory reserve subsequently proves to be insufficient, additional allowance may be required.
 
Vendor Consideration. We receive vendor consideration from our vendors in the form of cooperative marketing allowances, volume incentive rebates and other programs to support our marketing of their products. Most of our vendor consideration is accrued, when performance required for recognition is completed, as an offset to cost of sales in accordance with ASC 605-50 (formerly EITF 02-16, “Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor”) since such funds are not a reimbursement of specific, incremental, identifiable costs incurred by us in selling the vendors’ products. At the end of any given period, unbilled receivables related to our vendor consideration are included in our “Accounts receivable, net of allowances.”
 
Stock-Based Compensation. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718 (formerly financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”), using the modified prospective application transition method. ASC 718 addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which an enterprise receives employee services in exchange for either equity instruments of the enterprise or liabilities that are based on the fair value of the enterprise’s equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity instruments. ASC 718 generally requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair value based method and recognized as expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Pursuant to ASC 718, we estimate the grant date fair value of each stock option grant awarded pursuant to ASC 718 using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and management assumptions made regarding various factors, including expected volatility of our common stock, expected life of options granted and estimated forfeiture rates, which require extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates. In estimating our assumption regarding expected term for options we granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we computed the expected term based upon an analysis of historical exercises of stock options by our employees. We compute our expected volatility using historical prices of our common stock for a period equal to the expected term of the options. The risk free interest rate is determined using the implied yield on U.S. Treasury issues with a remaining term within the contractual life of the award. We estimate an annual forfeiture rate based on our historical forfeiture data, which rate will be revised, if necessary, in future periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Any material change in the estimates used in calculating the stock-based compensation expense could result in a material impact on our results of operations.
 
39





 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are carried at historical cost, subject to write-down, as needed, based upon an impairment analysis that we perform annually, or sooner if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not result in an impairment loss. We perform our annual impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31 of each year. Under ASC 350 (formerly SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”), goodwill impairment is deemed to exist if the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Events that may create an impairment include, but are not limited to, significant and sustained decline in our stock price or market capitalization, significant underperformance of operating units and significant changes in market conditions. Changes in estimates of future cash flows or changes in market values could result in a write-down of our goodwill in a future period. If an impairment loss results from any impairment analysis as described above, such loss will be recorded as a pre-tax charge to our operating income.
 
Goodwill impairment testing is a two-step process. Step one involves comparing the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying amount. If the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, there is no impairment and no further testing is required. If the reporting unit’s carrying amount is greater than the fair value, the second step must be completed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. Step two calculates the implied fair value of goodwill by deducting the fair value of all tangible and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, of the reporting unit from the fair value of the reporting unit as determined in step one. The implied fair value of goodwill determined in this step is compared to the carrying value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference.
 
As of December 31, 2011, we performed our annual impairment analysis of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment. Our management, with the assistance of an independent third-party valuation firm, determined the fair values of our reporting units and their underlying assets, and compared them to their respective carrying values. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in each business combination. The carrying value of goodwill was allocated to our reporting units pursuant to ASC 350. As a result of our annual impairment analysis, we have determined that a SARCOM trademark was impaired as a result of a reassessment of its remaining useful life and recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $0.8 million as “Impairment of indefinite-lived trademark” in our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2011. We have determined that no other impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets existed as of December 31, 2011.
 
Fair value was determined by using a weighted combination of a market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination was deemed to be the most indicative of fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilized information regarding our company and publicly available comparable company and industry information to determine cash flow multiples and revenue multiples that are used to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determined fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
 
In addition, fair values of our trademarks were determined using the relief from royalty method under the income approach to value.  This method applies a market based royalty rate to projected revenues that are associated with the trademarks.  Applying the royalty rate to projected revenues resulted in an indication of the pre-tax royalty savings associated with ownership of the trademarks.  Projected after-tax royalty savings were discounted to present value at the reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital, and a tax amortization benefit (calculated based on a 15 year life for tax purposes) was added.
 
In conjunction with our annual assessment of goodwill, our valuation techniques did not indicate any impairment as of December 31, 2011.  In performing the step one analysis of fair value, we concluded that the estimated fair values of each of the Sarcom, Abreon and NSPI reporting units were between 9-10% greater than their individual carrying values. All of our $25.5 million of goodwill resides within these reporting units.  However, in applying the market and income approaches to determining fair value of our reporting units, we rely on a number of significant assumptions and estimates including revenue growth rates and operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others.  Our estimates are based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which by nature are uncertain and unpredictable.  Changes in one or more of these significant estimates or assumptions could affect the results of these impairment reviews.  For example, a change of 2-3% in our weighted-average cost of capital assumptions or a significant change in our estimated earnings growth for any of the three reporting units would have resulted in a fair value at, or slightly below, our current carrying value of these reporting units.
 
As part of our annual review for impairment, we assessed the total fair values of the reporting units and compared total fair value to our market capitalization at December 31, 2011, including the implied control premium, to determine if the fair values are reasonable compared to external market indicators.  When comparing our market capitalization to the discounted cash flow models for each reporting unit summed together, the implied control premium was between 20-25% as of December 31, 2011.  We believe several factors are contributing to our low market capitalization, including the lack of trading volume in our stock and the recent significant investments made in various parts of our business and their effects on analyst earnings models.
 
Given continuing economic uncertainties and related risks to our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for purposes of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment testing as of December 31, 2011 will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. We may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges in future periods, whether in connection with our next annual impairment testing as of December 31, 2012 or prior to that, if any change constitutes a triggering event outside of the quarter from when the annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment test is performed. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment charge would result or, if it does, whether such charge would be material.
 
We amortize other intangible assets with definite lives generally on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
 
40





 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations Data
 
The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, our Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands) and information derived from our Consolidated Statements of Operations expressed as a percentage of net sales. There can be no assurance that trends in net sales, gross profit or operating results will continue in the future.
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

1,455,219 

  

$ 

1,368,314 

  

$ 

1,138,061 

   


Cost of goods sold  

  

1,264,731 

  

1,197,019 

  

985,045 

   


Gross profit  

  

190,488 

  

171,295 

  

153,016 

   


Selling, general and administrative expenses  

  

181,461 

  

156,827 

  

145,274 

   


Revaluation of earnout liability  

  

(1,229 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Impairment of indefinite-lived trademark  

  

800 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Operating profit  

  

9,456 

  

14,468 

  

7,742 

   


Interest expense, net  

  

3,284 

  

2,019 

  

1,567 

   


Income before income taxes  

  

6,172 

  

12,449 

  

6,175 

   


Income tax expense  

  

3,040 

  

4,876 

  

2,818 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

3,132 

  

$ 

7,573 

  

$ 

3,357 

    
 



  

  

As a Percentage of Net Sales   For Years Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net sales  

  

100.0 

% 

100.0 

% 

100.0 

%  


Cost of goods sold  

  

86.9 

  

87.5 

  

86.5 

   


Gross profit  

  

13.1 

  

12.5 

  

13.5 

   


Selling, general and administrative expenses  

  

12.5 

  

11.5 

  

12.8 

   


Revaluation of earnout liability  

  

(0.1 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Impairment of indefinite-lived trademark  

  

0.1 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Operating profit  

  

0.6 

  

1.0 

  

0.7 

   


Interest expense, net  

  

0.2 

  

0.1 

  

0.2 

   


Income before income taxes  

  

0.4 

  

0.9 

  

0.5 

   


Income tax expense  

  

0.2 

  

0.3 

  

0.3 

   


Net income  

  

0.2 

% 

0.6 

% 

0.2 

%   
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
Net Sales. The following table presents our net sales, by segment, for the periods presented (in thousands):
 



  

  

Years Ended   December 31, 

  

Change 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

$ 

  

% 

   


SMB  

  

$ 

509,463 

  

$ 

487,865 

  

$ 

21,598 

  

4.4 

%  


MME  

  

532,402 

  

493,733 

  

38,669 

  

7.8 

   


Public Sector  

  

181,795 

  

187,331 

  

(5,536 

) 

(3.0 

)  


MacMall  

  

190,237 

  

188,677 

  

1,560 

  

0.8 

   


OnSale  

  

43,307 

  

10,857 

  

32,450 

  

298.9 

   


Corporate and Other  

  

(1,985 

) 

(149 

) 

(1,836 

) 

NMF 

(1)  


Consolidated net sales  

  

$ 

1,455,219 

  

$ 

1,368,314 

  

$ 

86,905 

  

6.4 

%   

 


(1)  Not meaningful.
 
Our consolidated net sales for 2011 were $1,455.2 million, an $86.9 million, or 6%, increase from consolidated net sales of $1,368.3 million in 2010.
 
41





 
Our SMB segment net sales increased by $21.6 million, or 4%, to $509.5 million in 2011 from $487.9 million in 2010. This increase was primarily due to incremental productivity by our tenured account executives, partially offset by a $9 million decrease in sales to promotional companies as a result of a program change by a large vendor in late 2011. Going forward, we expect the results of the program change to have an impact on year over year comparisons.  Sales under the program in 2011 were approximately $64.7 million, compared to sales under the program in 2010 of $73.6 million.
 
Our MME segment net sales increased by $38.7 million, or 8%, to $532.4 million in 2011 from $493.7 million in 2010. This increase was primarily due to a 17% increase in sales of services in 2011 compared to 2010 as well as a 5% increase in net sales of products.
 
Our Public Sector segment net sales decreased by $5.5 million, or 3%, in 2011 to $181.8 million from $187.3 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to a 19% decrease in our federal government business due to ongoing federal budgetary constraints, partially offset by a 25% increase in sales to state and local government and educational institutions (SLED) resulting primarily from increased account executive headcount focused on SLED business and new SLED contracts in 2011.
 
Our MacMall segment net sales increased by $1.5 million, or 1%, to $190.2 million in 2011 compared to $188.7 million in 2010. This increase reflects our ongoing efforts to focus on higher profit customer segments such as small businesses, creative professionals and high-end consumers, but was offset by a decrease of $3.0 million due to the aforementioned vendor program change. Sales under this vendor program were approximately $8.2 million in 2011 compared to $11.2 million in 2010.
 
Our OnSale segment net sales increased by $32.4 million, or 299%, to $43.3 million in 2011 compared to $10.9 million in 2010. This increase was primarily due to net sales made through our eCost brand, which was acquired in February 2011, and a $15.3 million increase in sales through our OnSale brand.
 
Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin. The following table presents our gross profit and gross profit margin, by segment, for the periods presented (in thousands):
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

Gross Profit 

  

  

  

Gross Profit 

  

Change 

   


  

  

Gross Profit 

  

Margin 

  

Gross Profit 

  

Margin 

  

$ 

  

Margin 

   


SMB  

  

$ 

67,205 

  

13.2 

% 

$ 

60,324 

  

12.4 

% 

$ 

6,881 

  

0.8 

%  


MME  

  

81,483 

  

15.3 

  

75,301 

  

15.3 

  

6,182 

  

0.0 

   


Public Sector  

  

16,908 

  

9.3 

  

14,189 

  

7.6 

  

2,719 

  

1.7 

   


MacMall  

  

20,465 

  

10.8 

  

20,345 

  

10.8 

  

120 

  

0.0 

   


OnSale  

  

4,679 

  

10.8 

  

1,059 

  

9.8 

  

3,620 

  

1.0 

   


Corporate and Other  

  

(252 

) 

NMF 

(1) 

77 

  

NMF 

(1) 

(329 

) 

NMF 

(1)  


Consolidated gross profit   and gross profit margin  

  

$ 

190,488 

  

13.1 

% 

$ 

171,295 

  

12.5 

% 

$ 

19,193 

  

0.6 

%   

 


(1)  Not meaningful.
 
Consolidated gross profit for 2011 was $190.5 million compared to $171.3 million in 2010, a $19.2 million or 11% increase. Consolidated gross profit margin was 13.1% in 2011 compared to 12.5% in 2010.
 
Gross profit for our SMB segment was $67.2 million in 2011 compared to $60.3 million in 2010, an increase of $6.9 million or 11%. SMB gross profit margin increased by 80 basis points to 13.2% in 2011 compared to 12.4% in 2010. The increase in SMB gross profit was primarily due to the increase in SMB net sales discussed above and a $1.7 million increase in vendor consideration. The increase in SMB gross profit margin was primarily due to a change in product mix weighted more to service solutions, a decrease in the sales to promotional companies at lower margins and a 20 basis point increase in vendor consideration as a percentage of net sales.
 
Gross profit for our MME segment increased by $6.2 million, or 8%, to $81.5 million in 2011 compared to $75.3 million 2010, and gross profit margin remained flat at 15.3% in 2011 and 2010. The increase in MME gross profit was primarily due to the increased MME net sales discussed above and a $0.8 million increase in vendor consideration.
 
Gross profit for our Public Sector segment increased by $2.7 million, or 19%, to $16.9 million in 2011 compared to $14.2 million in 2010. Public Sector gross profit margin increased by 170 basis points to 9.3% in 2011 compared to 7.6% in 2010. The increase in our Public Sector gross profit and gross profit margin was primarily due to an improved mix of sales of products, services and solutions made at higher margins, which includes an increase of $1.3 million, or 76 basis points, in vendor consideration.
 
42





 
Gross profit for our MacMall segment was $20.5 million for 2011 compared to $20.3 million in 2010, an increase of $0.2 million or 1%. Gross profit margin for our MacMall segment remained relatively flat at 10.8% in 2011 and 2010.
 
Gross profit for our OnSale segment increased by $3.6 million, or 342%, to $4.7 million in 2011 compared to $1.1 million in 2010. OnSale gross profit margin increased by 100 basis points to 10.8% in 2011 compared to 9.8% in 2010. The increase in our OnSale gross profit was primarily due to the increased OnSale net sales discussed above. The increase in OnSale gross profit margin was primarily due to an improved product mix as well as higher margins on sales of HP Touchpads made during the second half of 2011, partially offset by an 85 basis point reduction in vendor consideration as a percentage of sales.
 
Operating Profit (Loss) and Operating Profit Margin. The following table presents our operating profit (loss) and operating profit margin, by segment, for the periods presented (in thousands):
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

Operating 

  

  

  

Operating 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

Operating 

  

Profit 

  

Operating 

  

Profit 

  

Change 

   


  

  

Profit (Loss) 

  

Margin (1) 

  

Profit (Loss) 

  

Margin (1) 

  

$ 

  

Margin 

   


SMB  

  

$ 

36,899 

  

7.2 

% 

$ 

31,362 

  

6.4 

% 

$ 

5,537 

  

0.8 

%  


MME  

  

27,582 

  

5.2 

  

23,190 

  

4.7 

  

4,392 

  

0.5 

   


Public Sector  

  

1,748 

  

1.0 

  

737 

  

0.4 

  

1,011 

  

0.6 

   


MacMall  

  

4,553 

  

2.4 

  

5,365 

  

2.8 

  

(812 

) 

(0.4 

)  


OnSale  

  

(4,563 

) 

(10.5 

) 

(36 

) 

(0.3 

) 

(4,527 

) 

(10.2 

)  


Corporate and Other  

  

(56,763 

) 

(3.9 

) 

(46,150 

) 

(3.4 

) 

(10,613 

) 

(0.5 

)  


Consolidated operating profit and operating   profit margin  

  

$ 

9,456 

  

0.6 

% 

$ 

14,468 

  

1.1 

% 

$ 

(5,012 

) 

(0.5 

)%   

 


(1)     Operating profit margin for Corporate and Other is computed based on consolidated net sales. Operating profit margin for each of the other segments is computed based on the respective segment’s net sales.
 
Consolidated operating profit for 2011 decreased by $5.0 million, or 35%, to $9.5 million compared to $14.5 million in 2010. Consolidated operating profit margin for 2011 was 0.6% compared to 1.1% in 2010, a decrease of 50 basis points.
 
Operating profit for our SMB segment increased by $5.5 million, or 18%, to $36.9 million in 2011 compared to $31.4 million in 2010. The increase in SMB operating profit was primarily due to the increase in SMB gross profit discussed above, partially offset by a $1.2 million increase in SMB personnel costs. This increase in SMB personnel costs was primarily due to an increase in variable compensation expenses due to the increased SMB gross profit discussed above.
 
Our MME segment operating profit increased by $4.4 million, or 19%, to $27.6 million in 2011 compared to $23.2 million in 2010. The increase in MME operating profit was primarily due to the increase in MME gross profit discussed above, a $1.2 million decrease in earnout liability related to NSPI and a $0.4 million decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by a $1.4 million increase in variable fulfillment costs, a $0.8 million increase in lease related costs, a $0.8 million impairment charge related to a writedown of an indefinite-lived SARCOM trademark based on a reassessment of its remaining estimated useful life, and a $0.5 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses primarily relating to the acquisition of NSPI.
 
Operating profit for our Public Sector segment was $1.7 million in 2011 compared to $0.7 million in 2010, an increase of $1.0 million, or 137%. The increase in Public Sector operating profit was primarily due to the increase in Public Sector gross profit discussed above, partially offset by a $1.1 million increase in Public Sector personnel costs related to our investment in incremental resources in our SLED and Health Dynamix divisions.
 
Operating profit for our MacMall segment decreased by $0.8 million, or 15%, to $4.6 million in 2011 compared to $5.4 million in 2010. The decrease in MacMall segment operating profit was primarily due a $0.3 million increase in advertising expenditures and a $0.3 million increase in personnel costs.
 
Operating loss for our OnSale segment increased by $4.5 million, to $4.6 million in 2011 compared to $36,000 in 2010. The increase in OnSale segment operating loss was primarily due to the expansion of the OnSale business model as discussed previously, and included a $4.1 million increase in personnel costs, a $1.7 million increase in advertising expenditures, a $0.6 million increase in legal costs, a $0.5 million increase in variable fulfilment costs and a $0.4 million increase in credit card related fees, partially offset by the increase in OnSale gross profit discussed above.
 
43





 
Corporate and Other operating expenses includes corporate related expenses such as legal, accounting, information technology, product management and certain pre-sales, value-added support services and other administrative costs that are not otherwise included in our reportable operating segments. Corporate and Other expenses increased by $10.6 million, or 23%, to $56.8 million in 2011 from $46.2 million in 2010. This increase was primarily due to a $4.2 million increase in net personnel costs, a $1.1 million increase in legal costs which includes costs incurred defending a lawsuit that was settled in January 2012 without liability to the company, $1.0 million of increased depreciation expense, a $0.7 million increase in telecommunications costs, and a $0.5 million writedown of inventory related to the introduction of the iPad 2 in 2011.
 
Net Interest Expense. Total net interest expense in 2011 increased to $3.3 million compared with $2.0 million in 2010. The increase in interest expense of $1.3 million resulted primarily from an increase in our average total outstanding borrowings in 2011, an increase in our average effective borrowing rate in 2011 compared to 2010, as well as an increase in amortization of deferred financing costs.
 
Income Tax Expense. We recorded an income tax expense of $3.0 million in 2011 compared to an income tax expense of $4.9 million in 2010. Our effective tax rates for 2011 and 2010 were 49% and 39%. The decrease in income tax expense is primarily attributable to the decrease in pre-tax book income in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase in our effective tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the recording of a valuation allowance against certain of our state net operating loss carryforwards.
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009
 
Net Sales. The following table presents our net sales, by segment, for the periods presented (in thousands):
 



  

  

Years Ended   December 31, 

  

Change 

   


  

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

$ 

  

% 

   


SMB  

  

$ 

487,865 

  

$ 

368,846 

  

$ 

119,019 

  

32.3 

%  


MME  

  

493,733 

  

382,725 

  

111,008 

  

29.0 

   


Public Sector  

  

187,331 

  

173,957 

  

13,374 

  

7.7 

   


MacMall  

  

188,677 

  

201,617 

  

(12,940 

) 

(6.4 

)  


OnSale  

  

10,857 

  

10,902 

  

(45 

) 

(0.4 

)  


Corporate and Other  

  

(149 

) 

14 

  

(163 

) 

NMF 

(1)  


Consolidated net sales  

  

$ 

1,368,314 

  

$ 

1,138,061 

  

$ 

230,253 

  

20.2 

%   


 



(1)  Not meaningful.
 
Our consolidated net sales for 2010 were $1,368.3 million, a $230.2 million, or 20%, increase from consolidated net sales of $1,138.1 million in 2009.
 
Our SMB segment net sales increased by $119.1 million, or 32%, to $487.9 million in 2010 from $368.8 million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to continuing economic recovery by small and medium sized businesses, increased productivity of our account executives, inclusive of significant growth in our new Chicago office, and an increase in sales to promotional companies.
 
Our MME segment net sales increased by $111.0 million, or 29%, to $493.7 million in 2010 from $382.7 million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to increased spending by customers in the mid-market and enterprise sector and increased account executive productivity in 2010. Product revenues increased by 38% in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 while service revenues decreased by 2% in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. Service revenues represented 17% of MME net sales in 2010 compared to 23% of net sales in 2009. The service revenue decline as a percentage of sales was due primarily to the aforementioned growth in products sales, and a 17% decline in MME’s Sarcom branded professional and managed services in 2010 compared to 2009 resulting from certain large service projects in 2009 that did not reoccur in 2010. This decline was partially offset by the inclusion of service revenues of NSPI, which we acquired in June 2010, and services performed under our Abreon brand, which service revenues increased by 12% in 2010 compared to 2009. MME’s service revenue vehicles are primarily contract-based and have longer lead times.
 
Our Public Sector segment net sales increased by $13.3 million, or 8%, in 2010 to $187.3 million from $174.0 million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to an increase in net sales in both our SLED business and our federal government business driven by stronger demand in both markets and our aggressive public sector market share growth strategy, as well as significant backlog from a large customer carried over from the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase in our federal government business was, however, largely offset by the impact of a 33% reduction in sales of Sun Microsystems solutions, which we believe is substantially related to the acquisition of Sun by Oracle in January 2010 and resulting vendor program changes made in the second quarter of 2010 in connection with Sun solutions. In addition, these changes had a significant negative impact on our federal government net sales through a large contract vehicle. We expect our federal government sales of Sun solutions may be negatively impacted for the foreseeable future.
 
44





 
Our MacMall segment net sales decreased by $12.9 million, or 6%, to $188.7 million in 2010 compared to $201.6 million in 2009. This decrease in MacMall net sales was primarily due to our shift in strategy, which focused the MacMall brand on higher profit customer segments such as small businesses, creative professionals and high-end consumers, as well as the effect of continued competition in the market for Apple products and the absence of year end opportunistic purchases we made in 2008 which we were able to profitably sell in the first half of 2009. These decreases in MacMall net sales in 2010 were partially offset by significant seasonal sales of iPads during the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
Our OnSale segment net sales remained relatively flat at $10.9 million in each of the years 2010 and 2009.
 
Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin. The following table presents our gross profit and gross profit margin, by segment, for the periods presented (in thousands):
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

Gross Profit 

  

  

  

Gross Profit 

  

Change 

   


  

  

Gross Profit 

  

Margin 

  

Gross Profit 

  

Margin 

  

$ 

  

Margin 

   


SMB  

  

$ 

60,324 

  

12.4 

% 

$ 

47,259 

  

12.8 

% 

$ 

13,065 

  

(0.4 

)%  


MME  

  

75,301 

  

15.3 

  

65,182 

  

17.0 

  

10,119 

  

(1.7 

)  


Public Sector  

  

14,189 

  

7.6 

  

18,300 

  

10.5 

  

(4,111 

) 

(2.9 

)  


MacMall  

  

20,345 

  

10.8 

  

21,221 

  

10.5 

  

(876 

) 

0.3 

   


OnSale  

  

1,059 

  

9.8 

  

870 

  

8.0 

  

189 

  

1.8 

   


Corporate and Other  

  

77 

  

NMF 

(1) 

184 

  

NMF 

(1) 

(107 

) 

NMF 

(1)  


Consolidated gross profit   and gross profit margin  

  

$ 

171,295 

  

12.5 

% 

$ 

153,016 

  

13.4 

% 

$ 

18,279 

  

(0.9 

)%   


 



(1)  Not meaningful.
 
Consolidated gross profit for 2010 was $171.3 million compared to $153.0 million in 2009, an $18.3 million or 12% increase. Consolidated gross profit margin was 12.5% in 2010 compared to 13.4% in 2009.
 
Gross profit for our SMB segment was $60.3 million in 2010 compared to $47.3 million in 2009, an increase of $13.0 million or 28%. SMB gross profit margin decreased by 40 basis points to 12.4% in 2010 compared to 12.8% in 2009. The increase in SMB gross profit was primarily due to the increase in SMB net sales discussed above and a $1.9 million increase in vendor consideration. The decrease in SMB gross profit margin was primarily due to a 48 basis point decline in vendor consideration as a percentage of net sales.
 
Gross profit for our MME segment increased by $10.1 million, or 16%, to $75.3 million in 2010 compared to $65.2 million 2009, and gross profit margin decreased by 170 basis points to 15.3% in 2010 compared to 17.0% in 2009. The increase in MME gross profit was primarily due to the increased MME net sales discussed above. The decrease in MME gross profit margin was primarily due to a change in overall sales mix, as hardware sales grew more rapidly than service sales.
 
Gross profit for our Public Sector segment decreased by $4.1 million, or 22%, to $14.2 million in 2010 compared to $18.3 million in 2009. Public Sector gross profit margin decreased by 290 basis points to 7.6% in 2010 compared to 10.5% in 2009. The decrease in our Public Sector gross profit and gross profit margin was primarily due to the impact of the Sun changes mentioned above and a higher mix of large, lower margin deals in 2010. Gross profit margin for 2010 also reflects the effects of our previously stated market share growth strategy in the Public Sector business, specifically on the Windows platform in order to broaden our sales mix. We expect that future sales of Sun Microsystems solutions will be made at lower margins than we have historically experienced prior to the vendor program changes made by Oracle.
 
Gross profit for our MacMall segment was $20.3 million for 2010 compared to $21.2 million in 2009, a decrease of $0.9 million or 4%. Gross profit margin for our MacMall segment increased by 30 basis points to 10.8% in 2010 compared to 10.5% in 2009. The decrease in our MacMall gross profit was primarily due to the decrease in MacMall net sales discussed above. The increase in MacMall gross profit margin was primarily due to the aforementioned strategy shift to focus the MacMall brand on higher profit customer segments.
 
45





 
Gross profit for our OnSale segment was $1.1 million for 2010 compared to $0.9 million in 2009, an increase of $0.2 million or 22%. Gross profit margin for our OnSale segment increased by 180 basis points to 9.8% in 2010 compared to 8.0% in 2009. The increase in OnSale gross profit and gross profit margin was primarily due to its focus on achieving profitability.
 
Operating Profit (Loss) and Operating Profit Margin. The following table presents our operating profit (loss) and operating profit margin, by segment, for the periods presented (in thousands):
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

Operating 

  

  

  

Operating 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

Operating 

  

Profit 

  

Operating 

  

Profit 

  

Change 

   


  

  

Profit (Loss) 

  

Margin (1) 

  

Profit (Loss) 

  

Margin (1) 

  

$ 

  

Margin 

   


SMB  

  

$ 

31,362 

  

6.4 

% 

$ 

23,048 

  

6.2 

% 

$ 

8,314 

  

0.2 

%  


MME  

  

23,190 

  

4.7 

  

18,613 

  

4.9 

  

4,577 

  

(0.2 

)  


Public Sector  

  

737 

  

0.4 

  

5,847 

  

3.4 

  

(5,110 

) 

(3.0 

)  


MacMall  

  

5,365 

  

2.8 

  

3,793 

  

1.9 

  

1,572 

  

0.9 

   


OnSale  

  

(36 

) 

(0.3 

) 

(607 

) 

(5.6 

) 

571 

  

5.3 

   


Corporate and Other  

  

(46,150 

) 

(3.4 

) 

(42,952 

) 

(3.8 

) 

(3,198 

) 

0.4 

%  


Consolidated operating profit and operating   profit margin  

  

$ 

14,468 

  

1.1 

% 

$ 

7,742 

  

0.7 

% 

$ 

6,726 

  

0.4 

%   


 



(1)     Operating profit margin for Corporate and Other is computed based on consolidated net sales. Operating profit margin for each of the other segments is computed based on the respective segment’s net sales.
 
Consolidated operating profit for 2010 increased by $6.8 million, or 87%, to $14.5 million compared to $7.7 million in 2009. Consolidated operating profit margin for 2010 was 1.1% compared to 0.7% in 2009, an increase of 40 basis points.
 
Operating profit for our SMB segment increased by $8.4 million, or 36%, to $31.4 million in 2010 compared to $23.0 million in 2009. The increase in SMB operating profit was primarily due to the increase in SMB gross profit discussed above, partially offset by a $4.6 million increase in SMB personnel costs. This increase in SMB personnel costs was primarily due to an increase in variable compensation expenses due to the increased SMB gross profit discussed above and our continuing investment in the growth of our Chicago office.
 
Our MME segment operating profit increased by $4.6 million, or 25%, to $23.2 million in 2010 compared to $18.6 million in 2009. The increase in MME operating profit was primarily due to the increase in MME gross profit discussed above, partially offset by a $3.4 million increase in MME personnel costs and a $0.6 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses primarily relating to the acquisition of NSPI. The increase in MME personnel costs was primarily due to an increase in variable compensation costs related to the increased gross profit discussed above and the acquisition of NSPI.
 
Operating profit for our Public Sector segment was $0.7 million in 2010 compared to $5.8 million in 2009, a decrease of $5.1 million, or 87%. The decrease in Public Sector operating profit was primarily due the decrease in Public Sector gross profit discussed above and a $0.9 million increase in Public Sector personnel costs related to our investment in our Public Sector’s Health Dynamix division and incremental investments in headcount. The increase in Public Sector personnel costs was partially offset by a decrease in variable compensation expenses due to the decreased Public Sector gross profit.
 
Operating profit for our MacMall segment increased by $1.6 million, or 41%, to $5.4 million in 2010 compared to $3.8 million in 2009. The increase in MacMall segment operating profit was primarily due to a $3.1 million decrease in MacMall advertising expenditures, a $0.6 million decrease in credit card related fees and a $0.6 million decrease in variable fulfilment expenses, partially offset by a $1.2 million increase in MacMall personnel costs and the decrease in MacMall gross profit discussed above. The increase in MacMall personnel costs were primarily due to an increase in sales executives supporting our MacMall small business initiative.
 
Operating loss for our OnSale segment was $36,000 in 2010 compared to an operating loss of $607,000 in 2009. The decrease in OnSale operating loss was primarily due to a $0.3 million decrease in advertising costs and a $0.1 million decrease in credit card related fees.
 
Corporate and Other operating expenses includes corporate related expenses such as legal, accounting, information technology, product management and certain pre-sales, value-added support services and other administrative costs that are not otherwise included in our reportable operating segments. Corporate and Other expenses increased by $3.2 million, or 7%, to $46.2 million in 2010 from $43.0 million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to a $2.6 million increase in personnel costs, which included a $0.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expenses, an increase in depreciation expenses of $1.7 million primarily related to the completed portions of our ERP and infrastructure upgrades, partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease in legal costs, a $0.4 million decrease in telecommunication costs and a $0.3 million decrease in other professional fees.
 
46





 
Net Interest Expense. Total net interest expense in 2010 increased to $2.0 million compared with $1.6 million in 2009. The increase in interest expense of $0.4 million resulted primarily from increase in our average total outstanding borrowings in 2010 partially offset by the decrease in our average effective borrowing rate in 2010 compared to 2009.
 
Income Tax Expense. We recorded an income tax expense of $4.9 million in 2010 compared to an income tax expense of $2.8 million in 2009. Our effective tax rates for 2010 and 2009 were 39% and 46%. The increase in income tax expense is primarily attributable to the increase in pre-tax income. The decrease in our effective tax rate in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the impact of a tax adjustment relating to a dividend from a foreign subsidiary in 2009.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Working Capital. Our primary capital need has historically been funding the working capital requirements created by our growth in sales and strategic acquisitions. We expect that our primary capital needs will continue to be the funding of our existing working capital requirements, capital expenditures for which we expect to include substantial investments in a new ERP system, eCommerce platform and an upgrade of our current IT infrastructure over the next several years, which are discussed below in “Other Planned Capital Projects,” possible sales growth, possible acquisitions and new business ventures, including our announced rebranding strategy and possible repurchases of our common stock under a discretionary repurchase program, which is discussed below. Our primary sources of financing have historically come from borrowings from financial institutions, public and private issuances of our common stock and cash flows from operations. Our continuing efforts to drive revenue growth from commercial customers could result in an increase in our accounts receivable as these customers are generally provided longer payment terms than consumers. We historically have increased our inventory levels from time to time to take advantage of strategic manufacturer promotions. We believe that our current working capital, including our existing cash balance, together with our expected future cash flows from operations and available borrowing capacity under our line of credit, will be adequate to support our current operating plans for at least the next 12 months. However, the current uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment may limit our cash resources that could otherwise be available to fund future strategic opportunities, capital investments or growth beyond our current operating plans. We are also unable to quantify any synergies or expected costs related to our recently announced rebranding strategy.
 
There has been ongoing weakness and uncertainty in the global economic environment, coupled with disruptions in the capital and credit markets. While our revolving credit facility does not mature until March 2015, we believe continued problems in these areas could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future financing if we need additional funds, such as for acquisitions or expansion, to fund a significant downturn in our sales or an increase in our operating expenses, or to take advantage of opportunities or favorable market conditions in the future. We may seek additional financing from public or private debt or equity issuances; however, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available at acceptable terms, if at all. Also, there can be no assurance that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by disruptions in the capital and credit markets.
 
We had cash and cash equivalents of $9.5 million at December 31, 2011 and $10.7 million at December 31, 2010. Our working capital decreased by $7.3 million to $45.3 million at December 31, 2011 from working capital of $52.6 million at December 31, 2010. This decrease in our working capital was primarily due to the increase in our outstanding borrowings under our line of credit at December 31, 2011, partially offset by increases in our accounts receivable and inventory.
 
In October 2008, our Board of Directors approved a discretionary common stock repurchase program for up to $10 million of our common stock in aggregate with all other repurchases made under any repurchase programs following the date of such Board of Directors’ approval. This repurchase program effectively superseded an earlier repurchase program adopted in 1996. Under this new program, the shares may be repurchased from time to time at prevailing market prices, through open market or unsolicited negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. We expect that any repurchases of our common stock under this program will be financed with existing working capital and amounts available under our existing credit facility. No limit was placed on the duration of the repurchase program. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that we will repurchase. Subject to applicable securities laws, repurchases may be made at such times and in such amounts as our management deems appropriate. The program can also be discontinued at any time management feels additional purchases are not warranted. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we had repurchased a total of 432,012 shares of our common stock under this program for a cost of $2.6 million. From the inception of the program in October 2008 through December 31, 2011, we had repurchased an aggregate total of 1,956,506 shares of our common stock for a cost of $8.7 million. The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock.
 
47





 
We maintain a Canadian call center serving the U.S. market, which has historically received the benefit of labor credits under a Canadian government program. In 2007, we received an eligibility certificate to participate in the Investment Quebec Refundable Tax Credit for Major Employment Generating Projects (GPCE). In addition to other eligibility requirements, we are required to maintain a minimum of 317 eligible employees employed by our subsidiary PC Mall Canada, Inc. in the province of Quebec at all times to remain eligible to apply annually for these labor credits. As a result of this new certification, we are eligible to make annual labor credit claims for eligible employees equal to 25% of eligible salaries, but not to exceed $15,000 (Canadian) per eligible employee per year, beginning in fiscal year 2008 and continuing through fiscal year 2016. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accrued receivable of $7.0 million related to the 2010 and 2011 calendar years. We expect to file our 2011 claim in 2012 and we expect to receive full payment under our remaining accrued labor credits receivable.
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Net cash used in operating activities was $22.1 million in 2011, primarily due to a $23.2 million increase in accounts receivable and a $14.9 million increase in inventory, partially offset by net income and non-cash adjustments to net income such as $10.0 million in depreciation and amortization.  The increase in accounts receivable in 2011 reflects our increased focus on sales to commercial companies and also was impacted by large sales near the end of 2011 that did not occur at the end of 2010. The increase in inventory in 2011 was due to a strategic purchase made near the end of 2011 of a large supply of inventory from a single vendor that we believe will be substantially sold through during the first quarter of 2012. We did not make an equivalent purchase at the end of 2010.
 
In 2010, we generated $28.3 million of cash provided by operating activities primarily due to net income before non-cash adjustments, as well as $19.3 million from a decrease in accounts payable due to better management of the timing of payments of our trade payables, a reduction in inventory of $5.0 million primarily due to the sell through of our Public Sector backlog that existed at the end of 2009, partially offset by a $21.5 million increase in accounts receivable reflecting our strategic focus on driving revenue growth from commercial customers.
 
In 2009, cash used in operating activities was $9.0 million as net income before non-cash adjustments was not sufficient to offset the increases in accounts receivable of $12.9 million and increases in deferred revenue of $4.9 million, both of which reflect our focus on driving revenue growth from corporate and public sector customers.
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $30.3 million, $16.8 million and $9.3 million, respectively. The $30.3 million of net cash used in investing activities in 2011 was primarily due to capital expenditures totaling $17.2 million related to the purchase of our new headquarters office building in El Segundo and related improvements, as well as purchases of furniture and equipment for that building, a $10.9 million capital expenditure related to investments in our IT infrastructure and the creation of enhanced electronic tools for our account executives and sales support staff, and a $2.3 million acquisition of certain assets of eCost.
 
The $16.8 million of net cash used in investing activities in 2010 was primarily related to the $8.8 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of NSPI in June 2010 and $8.0 million of capital expenditures. The $8.0 million of capital expenditures were primarily related to investments in our IT infrastructure, leasehold improvements relating to our relocated retail store in Torrance, California and the creation of enhanced electronic tools for our account executives and sales support staff. The $9.3 million of net cash used in investing activities in 2009 was primarily related to investment in our IT infrastructure, including ERP, security and telecommunications upgrades and the acquisition of certain assets of DSW.
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $51.2 million in 2011 compared to net cash used in financing activities $10.2 million in 2010 and net cash provided by financing activities $19.8 million in 2009. The $51.2 million of net cash provided by financing activities in 2011 was primarily due to $41.2 million of net borrowings on our line of credit, $7.2 million of borrowings under a new note payable to finance a part of the purchase price of the building in El Segundo and a $7.0 million change in book overdraft, partially offset by $2.6 million of repurchases of our common stock under a repurchase program, $1.2 million of capital lease payments and a $1.1 million payment of NSPI’s earnout liability.
 
The $10.2 million of net cash used in financing activities in 2010 was primarily due to the $4.2 million of net payments on our line of credit, a $3.4 million change in book overdraft and a $1.1 million of net repayments under our notes payable. The $19.8 million of net cash provided by financing activities in 2009 was primarily due to a $24.1 million increase in our outstanding balance on our line of credit, partially offset by repurchases of our common shares totaling $2.6 million, a $1.1 million decrease in book overdraft and $1.0 million of net payment on our notes payable.
 
Line of Credit and Notes Payable. We maintain an asset-based revolving credit facility, as amended from time to time and most recently amended as of December 14, 2010, of up to $160 million from a lending unit of a large commercial bank. The credit facility provides for, among other things, (i) a credit limit of $160 million, which may be increased in increments of $5 million up to a total credit limit of $180 million, provided that any increase of the total credit limit in excess of $160 million is subject to, among other
 
48





 
things, an acceptance and commitment by the lenders to such excess amount and a line increase fee not to exceed 0.65% of the increased amount; (ii) LIBOR interest rate options that we can enter into with no limit on the maximum outstanding principal balance which may be subject to a LIBOR interest rate option; and (iii) a maturity date of March 31, 2015. The credit facility, which functions as a working capital line of credit with a borrowing base of inventory and accounts receivable, including certain credit card receivables, also includes a monthly unused line fee of 0.25% per year on the amount, if any, by which the Maximum Credit, as defined in the agreement, then in effect, exceeds the average daily principal balance of the outstanding borrowings during the immediately preceding month. There can be no assurance that the lenders, if we elected to increase the credit limit, will commit to the remaining excess $20 million of credit beyond the $160 million in any future period. As a result, we may not be able to access the credit facility beyond its current limit of $160 million.
 
The credit facility is collateralized by substantially all of our assets. In addition to the security interest required by the credit facility, certain of our vendors have security interests in some of our assets related to their products. The credit facility has as its single financial covenant a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (FCCR) requirement in the event an FCCR triggering event has occurred. An FCCR triggering event is comprised of maintaining certain specified daily and average excess availability thresholds. In the event the FCCR covenant applies, the fixed charge coverage ratio is 1.0 to 1.0 for each twelve-month periods ending on or after December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with our financial covenant.
 
Loan availability under the line of credit fluctuates daily and is affected by many factors, including eligible assets on-hand, opportunistic purchases of inventory and availability and utilization of early-pay discounts. At December 31, 2011, we had $91.9 million of net working capital advances outstanding under the line of credit. At December 31, 2011, the maximum credit line was $160 million and we had $49.7 million available to borrow for working capital advances under the line of credit.
 
In connection with and as part of the amended credit facility, we entered into an amended term note on December 14, 2010 with a principal balance of $2.87 million, payable in equal monthly principal installments beginning on January 1, 2011, plus interest at the prime rate with a LIBOR option. The amended term note matures in December 2017 or in the event of a default, termination or non-renewal of our credit facility, is payable in its entirety upon demand by our lender. At December 31, 2011, we had $2.46 million outstanding under the amended term note. The remaining balance of our term note matures as follows: $410,000 annually in each of the years 2012 through 2017.
 
At December 31, 2011, our effective weighted average annual interest rate on outstanding amounts under the credit facility and term note was 2.36%.
 
At December 31, 2011, $0.2 million relating to the financing of our purchase of Microsoft AX (Axapta), which is a part of our ERP upgrade, were included in our “Notes payable — current” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. See “Other Planned Capital Projects” below for a detailed discussion.
 
In June 2011, we entered into a credit agreement to finance the acquisition and improvement of real property we purchased in March 2011 in El Segundo, California. The credit agreement provides for a lending commitment for a loan up to $10.9 million with a five year term and a 25 year straight-line principal repayment amortization period with a balloon payment at maturity. Interest is variable, indexed to Prime plus a spread of 0.375% or LIBOR plus a spread of 2.375% at our option, payable monthly. At December 31, 2011, we had $7.2 million outstanding under this credit agreement. The loan is secured by the real property and contains financial covenants substantially similar to those of our existing asset-based credit facility. In February 2012, we drew down an additional $2.9 million under this credit agreement. For more information, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.
 
In February 2012, we announced that we signed a definitive agreement to sell the property we own in Southern California, where one of our retail stores is currently located, for $17.5 million. While there are no guarantees that this transaction will close, we expect to realize a book gain of $15.9 million at the time of closing, which we currently expect to close during the second quarter of 2012. In connection with this sale, we intend to explore potential purchases or exchanges of real estate through Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We expect to effectuate such exchanges through one or more purchases of real property to be used in connection with our business and operations. We expect that any exchanges or purchases we make would benefit us through direct ownership of facilities that are strategic to our operations, reductions in our lease obligations, or other ancillary benefits. We expect a portion of the proceeds to be used to pay off the term note described above, which as of December 31, 2011 had a balance of $2.46 million. In addition, we may elect to enter into long-term debt agreements securing any new exchanges or purchases in the future.
 
The carrying amounts of our line of credit borrowings and notes payable approximate their fair value based upon the current rates offered to us for obligations of similar terms and remaining maturities.
 
49





 
As part of our growth strategy, we may, in the future, make acquisitions in the same or complementary lines of business, and pursue other business ventures. Any launch of a new business venture or any acquisition and the ensuing integration of the acquired operations would place additional demands on our management, and our operating and financial resources.
 
Inflation
 
Inflation has not had a material impact on our operating results; however, there can be no assurance that inflation will not have a material impact on our business in the future.
 
Dividend Policy
 
We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and our credit facility prohibits us from paying any cash dividends on our capital stock. Therefore, we do not currently anticipate paying dividends; we intend to retain any earnings to finance the growth and development of our business.
 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Contractual Obligations
 
The following tables set forth our future contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands), including the future periods in which payments are expected. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.
 



  

  

Payments Due by Period 

   


  

  

Total 

  

Less than   1 year 

  

1-3 years 

  

3-5 years 

  

After 5 years 

   


Contractual obligations 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Long-term debt obligations (a) (Note 7)  

  

$ 

9,890 

  

$ 

905 

  

$ 

1,396 

  

$ 

7,179 

  

$ 

410 

   


Purchase obligations (b) (Note 9)  

  

9,968 

  

8,411 

  

1,507 

  

50 

  

— 

   


Operating lease obligations (Note 9)  

  

17,245 

  

5,121 

  

8,183 

  

3,714 

  

227 

   


Capital lease obligations (Note 9)  

  

4,088 

  

1,490 

  

2,098 

  

500 

  

— 

   


Total contractual obligations  

  

$ 

41,191 

  

$ 

15,927 

  

$ 

13,184 

  

$ 

11,443 

  

$ 

637 

    
 



  

  

Total 

  

Less than   1 year 

  

1-3 years 

  

3-5 years 

  

After 5 years 

   


Other commercial commitments 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Line of credit (a) (Note 7)  

  

$ 

91,852 

  

$ 

91,852 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

   


Standby Letters of Credit (c)  

  

10,098 

  

10,000 

  

98 

  

— 

  

  

   


Earn-out (d)  

  

1,100 

  

1,100 

  

— 

  

  

  

  

   

















  
 




(a) 

Long-term   debt obligations and line of credit exclude interest, which is based on a   variable rate tied to the prime rate or LIBOR plus a variable spread, at our   option.  


(b) 

Purchase   obligations consist of minimum commitments under non-cancelable contracts for   services relating to telecommunications, IT maintenance, financial   services and employment contracts with certain employees (which consist of   severance arrangements that, if exercised, would become payable in less than   one year).  


(c) 

Standby   LOCs are commitments issued to third party beneficiaries, underwritten by a   third party bank, representing funding responsibility in the event of third   party demands or contingent events. The outstanding balance of our standby   LOCs reduces the amount available to us from our revolving credit facility.   The LOC amounts in the table above represent the amount of commitment   expiration per period presented. There were no claims made against any   standby LOCs during the year ended December 31, 2011.  


(d) 

Earn-out   represents the fair value of the future contingent liability, arising from   our acquisition of NSPI, as it is recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet   under “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities.” At completion of   acquisition of NSPI in June 2010, the fair value of the earn-out was   based on an initial valuation of the fair value of the contingent   consideration, under which the sellers of NSPI can earn up to a total of approximately   $5.2 million over a two year period commencing from the acquisition date. The   earn-out amounts in the table above represent the fair value of the   contingent liability at December 31, 2011 and the respective earn-out   period.   
 
In February 2012, we entered into capital lease agreements with US Bank for approximately $3.0 million of various furniture and equipment at our El Segundo headquarters office and intend to finance an additional $1.3 million. For more information, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Further, in February 2012, we drew down an additional $2.9 million on our existing credit facility which finances the acquisition and improvement of the real property we purchased in El Segundo, California.  Principal repayment began in March 2012.
 
50





 
Other Planned Capital Projects
 
ERP and Web Infrastructure Upgrades
 
We are currently upgrading many of our IT systems. We have purchased licenses for Microsoft Dynamics AX (Axapta) and other related tools, such as workflow software, web development tools and other related items, to upgrade our ERP and eCommerce systems. We initiated the implementation and upgrade of our eCommerce system in the second half of 2008 and have completed and launched a new generation of our public sites at macmall.com, onsale.com and pcmall.com. We are currently working on the implementation of the ERP modules and the upgrade of the ERP systems, including additional enhancements and features, and we expect to be complete with all phases of the implementation of the ERP systems by 2013. We believe the implementation and upgrade should help us to gain further efficiencies across our organization. Based on our estimates, which are subject to change, we currently expect to incur a total cost of up to $14 million for all these IT system upgrades. To date, we have incurred approximately $10.8 million of such costs. In addition to the above expenditures, we expect on an ongoing basis to make periodic upgrades to our IT systems.
 
In addition to the upgrades to our IT systems, in July 2008, we entered into an agreement with Cisco Systems for the purchase and implementation of various solutions to upgrade our current infrastructure for up to approximately $4.6 million. The purchase is financed through a capital lease over a five year term. Our plan is to provide a unified platform for our entire company and to provide a robust and efficient contact center. We received and completed the implementation of the Cisco solution across all of our locations in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
 
Contingencies
 
For a discussion of contingencies, see Part II, Item 8, Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this report.
 
RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
For a discussion of related-party transactions, see Part II, Item 8, Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this report.
 
IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, “Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (ASU 2011-05), which amends existing guidance by allowing only two options for presenting the components of net income and other comprehensive income: (1) in a single continuous financial statement, statement of comprehensive income or (2) in two separate but consecutive financial statements, consisting of an income statement followed by a separate statement of other comprehensive income. There is currently a proposal to defer the requirement to disclose items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income on the face of the financial statements. ASU 2011-05 requires retrospective application, and it is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The new standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, “Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (ASU 2011-08), which allows entities to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The adoption of the provisions of this accounting guidance effective January 1, 2012 is not expected to have any effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
51





 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
Our financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents and long-term debt. At December 31, 2011, the carrying values of our financial instruments approximated their fair values based on current market prices and rates.
 
We have not entered into derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2011. However, from time-to-time, we contemplate and may enter into derivative financial instruments related to interest rate, foreign currency, and other market risks.
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
We have exposure to the risks of fluctuating interest rates on our line of credit and note payable. The variable interest rates on our line of credit and note payable are tied to the prime rate or the LIBOR, at our discretion. At December 31, 2011, we had $91.9 million outstanding under our line of credit and $9.9 million outstanding under our note payable. As of December 31, 2011, the hypothetical impact of a one percentage point increase in interest rate related to the outstanding borrowings under our line of credit and note payable would be to increase our annual interest expense by approximately $1.0 million
 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
 
We have operation centers in Canada and the Philippines that provide back-office administrative support and customer service support. In each of these countries, transactions are primarily conducted in the respective local currencies. In addition, our two foreign subsidiaries that operate the operation centers have intercompany accounts with our U.S. subsidiaries that eliminate upon consolidation. However, transactions resulting in such accounts expose us to foreign currency rate fluctuations. We record gains and losses resulting from exchange rate fluctuations on our short-term intercompany accounts in “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and translation gains and losses resulting from exchange rate fluctuations on local currency based assets and liabilities in “Accumulated other comprehensive income,” a separate component of stockholders’ equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As such, we have foreign currency translation exposure for changes in exchange rates for these currencies. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have material foreign currency or overall currency exposure. Significant changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies in which we transact business and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
***
 
52





 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 



Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

   


  

   


Report   of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

54  


  

   


Consolidated   Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 

55  


  

   


Consolidated   Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and   2009 

56  


  

   


Consolidated   Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31,   2011, 2010 and 2009 

57  


  

   


Consolidated   Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and   2009 

58  


  

   


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

59  


  

   


Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited) 

76  


  

   


Financial Statement Schedule 

81  


  

   


Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

82   
 
All other schedules are omitted since the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.
 
53





 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of PC Mall, Inc.:
 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of PC Mall, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing in Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits (which were integrated audits in 2011 and 2009). We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
 



/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

   


Los   Angeles, California 

   


March 15,   2012 

    
 
54





 
PC MALL, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands, except per share amounts and share data)
 



  

  

At December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


ASSETS 

  

  

  

  

   


Current assets: 

  

  

  

  

   


Cash and cash equivalents  

  

$ 

9,484 

  

$ 

10,711 

   


Accounts receivable, net of allowances of $1,642   and $1,802  

  

207,985 

  

183,944 

   


Inventories, net  

  

79,456 

  

63,583 

   


Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

  

9,681 

  

10,022 

   


Deferred income taxes  

  

3,937 

  

3,798 

   


Total current assets  

  

310,543 

  

272,058 

   


Property and equipment, net  

  

44,745 

  

21,851 

   


Deferred income taxes  

  

247 

  

604 

   


Goodwill  

  

25,510 

  

25,510 

   


Intangible assets, net  

  

9,840 

  

11,749 

   


Other assets  

  

2,387 

  

2,319 

   


Total assets  

  

$ 

393,272 

  

$ 

334,091 

   


LIABILITIES AND   STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

  

  

  

  

   


Current liabilities: 

  

  

  

  

   


Accounts payable  

  

$ 

122,523 

  

$ 

124,851 

   


Accrued expenses and other current liabilities  

  

31,797 

  

31,279 

   


Deferred revenue  

  

18,079 

  

12,206 

   


Line of credit  

  

91,852 

  

50,301 

   


Note payable — current  

  

1,015 

  

783 

   


Total current liabilities  

  

265,266 

  

219,420 

   


Notes payable and other long-term liabilities  

  

11,574 

  

4,607 

   


Deferred income taxes  

  

5,606 

  

2,771 

   


Total liabilities  

  

282,446 

  

226,798 

   


Commitments and contingencies (Note 9) 

  

  

  

  

   


Stockholders’ equity: 

  

  

  

  

   


Preferred stock, $0.001 par value; 5,000,000   shares authorized; none issued and outstanding  

  

— 

  

— 

   


Common stock, $0.001 par value; 30,000,000 shares   authorized; 14,368,888 and 14,089,672 shares issued; and 11,995,704 and   12,148,500 shares outstanding, respectively  

  

14 

  

14 

   


Additional paid-in capital  

  

108,061 

  

104,894 

   


Treasury stock, at cost: 2,373,184 and 1,941,172   shares  

  

(9,733 

) 

(7,176 

)  


Accumulated other comprehensive income  

  

2,256 

  

2,465 

   


Retained earnings  

  

10,228 

  

7,096 

   


Total stockholders’ equity  

  

110,826 

  

107,293 

   


Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity  

  

$ 

393,272 

  

$ 

334,091 

    
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
55





 
PC MALL, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

1,455,219 

  

$ 

1,368,314 

  

$ 

1,138,061 

   


Cost of goods sold  

  

1,264,731 

  

1,197,019 

  

985,045 

   


Gross profit  

  

190,488 

  

171,295 

  

153,016 

   


Selling, general and administrative expenses  

  

181,461 

  

156,827 

  

145,274 

   


Revaluation of earnout liability  

  

(1,229 

) 

  

  

  

   


Impairment of indefinite-lived trademark  

  

800 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Operating profit  

  

9,456 

  

14,468 

  

7,742 

   


Interest expense, net  

  

3,284 

  

2,019 

  

1,567 

   


Income before income taxes  

  

6,172 

  

12,449 

  

6,175 

   


Income tax expense  

  

3,040 

  

4,876 

  

2,818 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

3,132 

  

$ 

7,573 

  

$ 

3,357 

   


Basic and Diluted Earnings Per   Common Share 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

$ 

0.26 

  

$ 

0.62 

  

$ 

0.27 

   


Diluted  

  

0.25 

  

0.61 

  

0.26 

   


Weighted average number of common shares   outstanding: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

12,225 

  

12,220 

  

12,373 

   


Diluted  

  

12,476 

  

12,468 

  

12,675 

    
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
56





 
PC MALL, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(in thousands)
 



  

  

Common Stock 

  

Additional   Paid-in 

  

Treasury 

  

Accumulated   Other   Comprehensive 

  

Retained   Earnings 

  

  

   


  

  

Outstanding 

  

Amount 

  

Capital 

  

Stock 

  

Income 

  

(Deficit) 

  

Total 

   


Balance at December 31, 2008  

  

12,681 

  

$ 

14 

  

$ 

99,732 

  

$ 

(3,623 

) 

$ 

1,262 

  

$ 

(3,834 

) 

$ 

93,551 

   


Stock   option and warrant exercises, including related income tax benefit  

  

193 

  

— 

  

945 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

945 

   


Stock-based   compensation expense  

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,684 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,684 

   


Purchases   of common stock under a stock repurchase program  

  

(583 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

(2,631 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

(2,631 

)  


Subtotal    

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

93,549 

   


Net   income  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

3,357 

  

3,357 

   


Translation   adjustments, net of taxes  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

849 

  

— 

  

849 

   


Comprehensive   income  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

4,206 

   


Balance at December 31, 2009  

  

12,291 

  

14 

  

102,361 

  

(6,254 

) 

2,111 

  

(477 

) 

97,755 

   


Stock   option exercises and restricted stock awards, including related   income tax benefit  

  

58 

  

— 

  

168 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

168 

   


Stock-based   compensation expense  

  

— 

  

— 

  

2,365 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

2,365 

   


Purchases   of common stock under a stock repurchase program  

  

(200 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

(922 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

(922 

)  


Subtotal    

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

99,366 

   


Net   income  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

7,573 

  

7,573 

   


Translation   adjustments, net of taxes  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

354 

  

— 

  

354 

   


Comprehensive   income  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

7,927 

   


Balance at December 31, 2010  

  

12,149 

  

14 

  

104,894 

  

(7,176 

) 

2,465 

  

7,096 

  

107,293 

   


Stock   option exercises and restricted stock awards, including related   income tax benefit  

  

279 

  

— 

  

763 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

763 

   


Stock-based   compensation expense  

  

— 

  

— 

  

2,404 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

2,404 

   


Purchases   of common stock under a stock repurchase program  

  

(432 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

(2,557 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

(2,557 

)  


Subtotal    

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

107,903 

   


Net   income  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

3,132 

  

3,132 

   


Translation   adjustments, net of taxes  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(209 

) 

— 

  

(209 

)  


Comprehensive   income  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

2,923 

   


Balance at December 31, 2011  

  

11,996 

  

$ 

14 

  

$ 

108,061 

  

$ 

(9,733 

) 

$ 

2,256 

  

$ 

10,228 

  

$ 

110,826 

    
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
57





 
PC MALL, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Cash Flows From Operating   Activities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

3,132 

  

$ 

7,573 

  

$ 

3,357 

   


Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash   (used in) provided by operating activities: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Depreciation and amortization  

  

10,044 

  

8,157 

  

5,597 

   


Provision for deferred income taxes  

  

2,634 

  

3,327 

  

4,273 

   


Net tax benefit related to stock option exercises  

  

1 

  

96 

  

309 

   


Excess tax benefit related to stock option   exercises  

  

(668 

) 

(31 

) 

(289 

)  


Non-cash stock-based compensation  

  

2,404 

  

2,365 

  

1,684 

   


Decrease in earnout liability  

  

(1,229 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Impairment of indefinite-lived trademark  

  

800 

  

— 

  

— 

   


(Gain) loss on sale of fixed assets  

  

(7 

) 

14 

  

22 

   


Change in operating assets and liabilities: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Accounts receivable  

  

(23,151 

) 

(21,516 

) 

(12,921 

)  


Inventories  

  

(14,889 

) 

4,981 

  

(719 

)  


Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

  

178 

  

(561 

) 

(1,942 

)  


Other assets  

  

217 

  

324 

  

(24 

)  


Accounts payable  

  

(9,425 

) 

19,352 

  

(779 

)  


Accrued expenses and other current liabilities  

  

2,033 

  

2,351 

  

(2,672 

)  


Deferred revenue  

  

5,873 

  

1,908 

  

(4,858 

)  


Total adjustments  

  

(25,185 

) 

20,767 

  

(12,319 

)  


Net cash (used in) provided by operating   activities  

  

(22,053 

) 

28,340 

  

(8,962 

)  


Cash Flows From Investing   Activities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Purchase of El Segundo building, related   improvements, furniture and equipment  

  

(17,174 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Purchases of property and equipment  

  

(10,865 

) 

(8,019 

) 

(8,240 

)  


Acquisition of assets, net  

  

(2,284 

) 

(8,788 

) 

(1,020 

)  


Proceeds from sale of fixed assets  

  

25 

  

19 

  

— 

   


Net cash used in investing activities  

  

(30,298 

) 

(16,788 

) 

(9,260 

)  


Cash Flows From Financing   Activities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net borrowings (payments) under line of credit  

  

41,205 

  

(4,236 

) 

24,117 

   


Change in book overdraft  

  

7,034 

  

(3,454 

) 

(1,117 

)  


Borrowings under notes payable  

  

7,198 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Payments under notes payable  

  

(757 

) 

(1,143 

) 

(1,004 

)  


Payments for deferred financing costs  

  

(25 

) 

(104 

) 

— 

   


Payments of obligations under capital lease  

  

(1,203 

) 

(483 

) 

(450 

)  


Payment of earnout liability  

  

(1,121 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Proceeds from stock issued under stock option   plans  

  

762 

  

72 

  

636 

   


Excess tax benefit related to stock option   exercises  

  

668 

  

31 

  

289 

   


Common shares repurchased and held in treasury  

  

(2,557 

) 

(922 

) 

(2,631 

)  


Net cash provided by (used in) financing   activities  

  

51,204 

  

(10,239 

) 

19,840 

   


Effect of foreign currency on cash flow  

  

(80 

) 

183 

  

849 

   


Net change in cash and cash equivalents  

  

(1,227 

) 

1,496 

  

2,467 

   


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the   period  

  

10,711 

  

9,215 

  

6,748 

   


Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  

  

$ 

9,484 

  

$ 

10,711 

  

$ 

9,215 

   


Supplemental Cash Flow   Information 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest paid  

  

$ 

2,797 

  

$ 

1,829 

  

$ 

1,516 

   


Income taxes paid  

  

4,157 

  

1,558 

  

2,446 

   


Supplemental Non-Cash Investing   and Financing Activities (Notes 4 and 7) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Purchase of infrastructure system  

  

$ 

2,779 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

1,105 

   


Deferred financing costs  

  

346 

  

1,410 

  

— 

   


NSPI and DSW acquisitions related: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Fair value of assets, net of cash acquired  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

13,472 

  

$ 

1,510 

   


Cash paid  

  

— 

  

(8,788 

) 

(1,020 

)  


Liabilities assumed  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

4,684 

  

$ 

490 

    
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
58





 
PC MALL, INC.
 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. Description of Company
 
PC Mall, Inc. is a leading value added direct marketer of technology products, services and solutions to businesses, government and educational institutions and individual consumers. We go to market through our dedicated sales force of over 700 account executives. We also offer our products, services and solutions through our field service teams, various direct marketing techniques and a limited number of retail stores. Since our founding in 1987, we have served our customers in part by offering them multi-branded hardware solutions from leading brands including HP, Apple, Cisco, Microsoft and Lenovo. Through us, these and other manufacturers are able to reach multiple customer segments including consumers, small and medium sized businesses, large enterprise businesses, as well as state, local and federal governments and educational institutions. We add additional value to our manufacturer partners by being able to sell, deliver and incorporate their products and services into comprehensive solutions with a high degree of customization. Our model also facilitates an efficient supply chain and support mechanism for manufacturers by using a combination of direct marketing, centralized selling and support, and centralized product fulfillment.
 
In conjunction with our eCost.com acquisition, which is discussed in detail below, beginning with the first quarter of 2011, our management considered the OnSale and eCOST businesses together as a separate segment and report their results accordingly, including revising all historical segment financial information reported herein. As such, in 2011, existing sales under the OnSale brand were no longer reported under the MacMall segment. In 2011, we had five operating segments, SMB, MME, Public Sector, MacMall and OnSale. We include corporate related expenses such as legal, accounting, information technology, product management, certain support services and other administrative costs that are not otherwise allocated to our reportable operating segments in Corporate and Other. In 2011, we generated approximately 37% of our revenue in our MME segment, 35% of our revenue in our SMB segment, 13% of our revenue in our MacMall segment, 12% of our revenue in our Public Sector segment and 3% of our revenue in our OnSale segment.
 
Our SMB segment consists of sales made primarily to small and medium sized businesses, generally with less than 1,000 employees. The SMB segment utilizes an outbound phone based sales force and, where applicable, a field-based sales force, together with an online extranet customized for individual customers that enables them to manage their IT procurement process. In addition, the SMB segment markets to small businesses through its Small Business Network utilizing its own social network site at www.pcmallsbn.com.
 
Our MME segment consists of sales made primarily to mid-market and enterprise-sized businesses, generally with more than 1,000 employees, under the SARCOM, NSPI and Abreon brands. The MME segment sells complex products, services and solutions, utilizing a field relationship-based selling model, an outbound phone based sales force, a field service organization and an online extranet.
 
Our Public Sector segment consists of sales made primarily to federal, state and local governments, as well as educational institutions. The Public Sector segment utilizes an outbound phone and field relationship-based selling model, as well as contract and bid business development teams and an online extranet.
 
Our MacMall segment historically included sales made under our MacMall brand name via telephone and the Internet to consumers, small businesses and creative professionals.
 
Our OnSale segment historically included sales made under our OnSale and eCost brand names via the Internet and inbound phone-based sales forces. The OnSale segment has utilized traditional internet marketing as well as our recently developed “daily deals” business model. Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, in response to what we believe to be a rapidly changing way in which consumers shop and go to market, our OnSale segment expanded its business to enter the market for local daily deals through social commerce. As this market and its related customer buying behaviors have continued to evolve, the “daily deals” business model is rapidly expanding to include sales of IT products. In response to these developments, we have determined that our strategic objectives can be best achieved by incorporating the best practices, technologies and methodologies we have developed in our stand alone “daily deals” business into our traditional eCommerce platform and no longer operating a stand alone “daily deals” business. In the first quarter of 2012, we expect to realign our operating segments by consolidating the OnSale and MacMall segments.
 
59





 
2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The accompanying financial statements included herein are presented on a consolidated basis and include our accounts and the accounts of all of our wholly-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions.
 
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported herein. Management bases its estimates, judgments and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from those estimates.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
We adhere to the revised guidelines and principles of sales recognition described in ASC 605 (formerly Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition,” issued by the staff of the SEC as a revision to Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, “Revenue Recognition”). Under ASC 605, product sales are recognized when the title and risk of loss are passed to the customer, there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement for sale, delivery has occurred and/or services have been rendered, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Under these guidelines, the majority of our sales, including revenue from product sales and gross outbound shipping and handling charges, are recognized upon receipt of the product by the customer. In accordance with our revenue recognition policy, we perform an analysis to estimate the number of days products we have shipped are in transit to our customers using data from our third party carriers and other factors. We record an adjustment to reverse the impact of sale transactions based on the estimated value of products that have shipped, but have not yet been received by our customers, and we recognize such amounts in the subsequent period when delivery has occurred. Changes in delivery patterns or unforeseen shipping delays beyond our control could have a material impact on our revenue recognition for the current period.
 
For all product sales shipped directly from suppliers to customers, we take title to the products sold upon shipment, bear credit risk, and bear inventory risk for returned products that are not successfully returned to suppliers; therefore, these revenues are recognized at gross sales amounts.
 
Certain software assurance or subscription products and extended warranties that we sell (for which we are not the primary obligor) are recognized on a net basis in accordance with ASC 605-45 (formerly Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 99-19, “Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent).” Accordingly, such revenues are recognized in net sales either at the time of sale or over the contract period, based on the nature of the contract, at the net amount retained by us, with no cost of goods sold.
 
When a customer order contains multiple deliverables such as hardware, software and services which are delivered at varying times, we determine whether the delivered items can be considered separate units of accounting as prescribed under ASC 605-25, Revenue Recognition, Multiple-Element Arrangement. For arrangements with multiple units of accounting, arrangement consideration is allocated among the units of accounting, where separable, based on their relative selling price. Relative selling price is determined based on vendor-specific objective evidence, if it exists. Otherwise, third-party evidence of selling price is used, when it is available, and in circumstances when neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence of selling price is available, management’s best estimate of selling price is used.
 
Sales are reported net of estimated returns and allowances, discounts, mail-in rebate redemptions and credit card chargebacks. If the actual sales returns, allowances, discounts, mail-in rebate redemptions or credit card chargebacks are greater than estimated by management, additional expense may be incurred.
 
Cost of Goods Sold
 
Cost of goods sold includes product costs, outbound and inbound shipping costs and costs of delivered services, offset by certain market development funds, volume incentive rebates and other consideration from vendors as described in “Advertising Costs and Vendor Consideration” below.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
All highly liquid investments with initial maturities of three months or less and credit card receivables with settlement terms less than 5 days are considered cash equivalents. Amounts due from credit card processors classified as cash totaled $3.9 million and $4.1 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Checks issued but not presented for payment to the bank, net of available cash subject to a right of offset, totaling $7.7 million and $0.7 million as of December 31, 2011and 2010 were included in “Accounts payable” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our cash management programs result in utilizing available cash to pay down our line of credit.
 
60





 
Accounts Receivable
 
We generate the majority of our accounts receivable through the sale of products and services to certain customers on account. In addition, we record vendor receivables at such time as all conditions have been met that would entitle us to receive such vendor funding, and is thereby considered fully earned.
 
The following table presents the gross amounts of our accounts receivable (in thousands):
 



  

  

December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Trade receivables 

  

$ 

183,337 

  

$ 

161,930 

   


Vendor receivables 

  

23,236 

  

22,132 

   


Other receivables 

  

3,054 

  

1,684 

   


Total gross accounts receivable 

  

209,627 

  

185,746 

   


Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 

  

(1,642 

) 

(1,802 

)  


Accounts receivable, net 

  

$ 

207,985 

  

$ 

183,944 

    
 
For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, “Vendor receivables” presented above included $15.9 million and $13.4 million, respectively, of unbilled receivables relating to vendor consideration, which is described below under “Advertising Costs and Vendor Consideration.”
 
Accounts receivable potentially subject us to credit risk. We extend credit to our customers based upon an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition and credit history, and generally do not require collateral. No customer accounted for more than 10% of trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2011 and 2010. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable based upon estimates of future collection. We regularly evaluate our customers’ financial condition and credit history in determining the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts. We have historically incurred credit losses within management’s expectations. We also maintain an allowance for uncollectible vendor receivables, which arise from vendor rebate programs, price protections and other promotions. We determine the sufficiency of the vendor receivable allowance based upon various factors, including payment history. Amounts received from vendors may vary from amounts recorded because of potential non-compliance with certain elements of vendor programs. If the estimated allowance for uncollectible accounts or vendor receivables subsequently proves to be insufficient, additional allowance may be required.
 
Inventories
 
Inventories consist primarily of finished goods, and are stated at the lower of cost (determined under the first-in, first-out method) or market. We had reserves of $1.5 million and $1.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, reflecting lower of cost or market pricing and allowance for potential excess and obsolete inventory. As discussed under “Revenue Recognition” above, we do not record revenue and related cost of goods sold until there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement for sale, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. As such, inventories include goods-in-transit to customers at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
A substantial portion of our business is dependent on sales of Apple, HP, and products purchased from other vendors including Adobe, Cisco, IBM, Ingram Micro, Lenovo, Microsoft, Sony, Sun Microsystems and Tech Data. Products manufactured by Apple represented approximately 21%, 21% and 19% of our net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Products manufactured by HP represented 20%, 20% and 19% of our net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
Advertising Costs and Vendor Consideration
 
We account for advertising costs in accordance with ASC 340-20 (formerly Statement of Position No. 93-7, “Reporting on Advertising Costs”). Our advertising expenditures are generally expensed in the period incurred. Total net advertising expenditures, which were included in “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, were $7.4 million, $5.4 million and $8.5 million in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
61





 
We receive vendor consideration from our vendors in the form of cooperative marketing allowances, volume incentive rebates and other programs to support our marketing of their products. Most of our vendor consideration is accrued, when performance required for recognition is completed, as an offset to cost of sales in accordance with ASC 605-50 (formerly EITF 02-16, “Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor”) since such funds are not a reimbursement of specific, incremental, identifiable costs incurred by us in selling the vendors’ products. At the end of any given period, unbilled receivables related to our vendor consideration are included in our “Accounts receivable, net of allowances.”
 
Property and Equipment
 
Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as noted below. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their useful lives or the remaining lease term. We also capitalize computer software costs that meet both the definition of internal-use software and defined criteria for capitalization in accordance with ASC 350-40 (formerly SOP 98-1, “Accounting for the Cost of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use”).
 



Autos 

  

3   – 5 years  


Computers,   software, machinery and equipment 

  

1   – 7 years  


Leasehold   improvements 

  

1   – 10 years  


Furniture   and fixtures 

  

3   – 15 years  


Building   and improvements 

  

5   – 31 years   
 
We had $8.6 million and $4.6 million of unamortized internally developed software at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate their fair values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments. The carrying amounts of our line of credit borrowings and notes payable approximate their fair values based upon the current rates offered to us for obligations of similar terms and remaining maturities.
 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
 
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are carried at historical cost, subject to write-down, as needed, based upon an impairment analysis that we perform annually, or sooner if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not result in an impairment loss. We perform our annual impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31 of each year. Under ASC 350 (formerly SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”), goodwill impairment is deemed to exist if the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Events that may create an impairment include, but are not limited to, significant and sustained decline in our stock price or market capitalization, significant underperformance of operating units and significant changes in market conditions. Changes in estimates of future cash flows or changes in market values could result in a write-down of our goodwill in a future period. If an impairment loss results from any impairment analysis as described above, such loss will be recorded as a pre-tax charge to our operating income.
 
Goodwill impairment testing is a two-step process. Step one involves comparing the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying amount. If the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, there is no impairment and no further testing is required. If the reporting unit’s carrying amount is greater than the fair value, the second step must be completed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. Step two calculates the implied fair value of goodwill by deducting the fair value of all tangible and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, of the reporting unit from the fair value of the reporting unit as determined in step one. The implied fair value of goodwill determined in this step is compared to the carrying value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference.
 
As of December 31, 2011, we performed our annual impairment analysis of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment. Our management, with the assistance of an independent third-party valuation firm, determined the fair values of our reporting units and their underlying assets, and compared them to their respective carrying values. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in each business combination. The carrying value of goodwill was allocated to our reporting units pursuant to ASC 350. As a result of our annual impairment analysis, we have determined that a SARCOM trademark was impaired as a result of a reassessment of its remaining useful life and recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $0.8 million as “Impairment of indefinite-lived trademark” in our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2011. We have determined that no other impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets existed as of December 31, 2011.
 
62





 
Fair value was determined by using a weighted combination of a market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination was deemed to be the most indicative of fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilized information regarding our company and publicly available comparable company and industry information to determine cash flow multiples and revenue multiples that are used to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determined fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
 
In addition, fair values of our trademarks were determined using the relief from royalty method under the income approach to value.  This method applies a market based royalty rate to projected revenues that are associated with the trademarks.  Applying the royalty rate to projected revenues resulted in an indication of the pre-tax royalty savings associated with ownership of the trademarks.  Projected after-tax royalty savings were discounted to present value at the reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital, and a tax amortization benefit (calculated based on a 15 year life for tax purposes) was added.
 
In conjunction with our annual assessment of goodwill, our valuation techniques did not indicate any impairment as of December 31, 2011.  In performing the step one analysis of fair value, we concluded that the estimated fair values of each of the Sarcom, Abreon and NSPI reporting units were between 9-10% greater than their individual carrying values. All of our $25.5 million of goodwill resides within these reporting units.  However, in applying the market and income approaches to determining fair value of our reporting units, we rely on a number of significant assumptions and estimates including revenue growth rates and operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others.  Our estimates are based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which by nature are uncertain and unpredictable.  Changes in one or more of these significant estimates or assumptions could affect the results of these impairment reviews.  For example, a change of 2-3% in our weighted-average cost of capital assumptions or a significant change in our estimated earnings growth for any of the three reporting units would have resulted in a fair value at, or slightly below, our current carrying value of these reporting units.
 
As part of our annual review for impairment, we assessed the total fair values of the reporting units and compared total fair value to our market capitalization at December 31, 2011, including the implied control premium, to determine if the fair values are reasonable compared to external market indicators.  When comparing our market capitalization to the discounted cash flow models for each reporting unit summed together, the implied control premium was between 20-25% as of December 31, 2011.  We believe several factors are contributing to our low market capitalization, including the lack of trading volume in our stock and the recent significant investments made in various parts of our business and their effects on analyst earnings models.
 
Given continuing economic uncertainties and related risks to our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for purposes of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment testing as of December 31, 2011 will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. We may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges in future periods, whether in connection with our next annual impairment testing as of December 31, 2012 or prior to that, if any change constitutes a triggering event outside of the quarter from when the annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment test is performed. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment charge would result or, if it does, whether such charge would be material.
 
We amortize other intangible assets with definite lives generally on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
 
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets
 
We review long-lived assets and certain intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In the event the undiscounted future cash flow attributable to the asset is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long-lived asset. Changes in estimates of future cash flows attributable to the long-lived assets could result in a write-down of the asset in a future period.
 
Debt Issuance Costs
 
We defer costs incurred to obtain our credit facility and amortize these costs to interest expense using the straight-line method over the term of the respective obligation.
 
Income Taxes
 
We account for income taxes under the liability method as prescribed in accordance with ASC 740 (formerly SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”). Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the tax basis and financial reporting amounts of existing assets and liabilities. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax provisions and benefits, in assessing the likelihood of recovering our deferred tax assets and in evaluating our tax positions. A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that all or some portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. See Note 8 for more detailed information.
 
We account for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with ASC 740 (formerly FIN 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,”) which we adopted on January 1, 2007. ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. ASC 740 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. Only tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold may be recognized. Under ASC 740, we recognize penalties and interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits, if any, as part of “Income tax expense (benefit)” in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
63





 
Sales Taxes
 
We present sales tax we collect from our customers on a net basis (excluded from our revenues), a presentation which is prescribed as one of two methods available under ASC 605-45-50-3 (formerly EITF Issue No. 06-03, “How Sales Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net Presentation)”).
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718 (formerly Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”), using the modified prospective application transition method. ASC 718 addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which an enterprise receives employee services in exchange for either equity instruments of the enterprise or liabilities that are based on the fair value of the enterprise’s equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity instruments. ASC 718 generally requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair value based method and recognized as expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Pursuant to ASC 718, we estimate the grant date fair value of each stock option grant awarded pursuant to ASC 718 using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and management assumptions made regarding various factors, including expected volatility of our common stock, expected life of options granted and estimated forfeiture rates, which require extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates. In estimating our assumption regarding expected term for options we granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we computed the expected term based upon an analysis of historical exercises of stock options by our employees. We compute our expected volatility using historical prices of our common stock for a period equal to the expected term of the options. The risk free interest rate is determined using the implied yield on U.S. Treasury issues with a remaining term within the contractual life of the award. We estimate an annual forfeiture rate based on our historical forfeiture data, which rate will be revised, if necessary, in future periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Any material change in the estimates used in calculating the stock-based compensation expense could result in a material impact on our results of operations.
 
Foreign Currency Translation
 
The local currency of our foreign operations is their functional currency. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in accordance with ASC 830-30 (formerly SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation”). Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of our Canadian and Philippine subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet dates. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rate for each month within the year. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a separate component of stockholders’ equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. All transaction gains or losses are recorded in “Selling, general and administrative expenses” on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. These gains or losses were not material in any of the years presented in our consolidated financial statements.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, “Comprehensive Income” (ASU 2011-12), which amends existing guidance by allowing only two options for presenting the components of net income and other comprehensive income: (1) in a single continuous financial statement, statement of comprehensive income or (2) in two separate but consecutive financial statements, consisting of an income statement followed by a separate statement of other comprehensive income. There is currently a proposal to defer the requirement to disclose items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income on the face of the financial statements. ASU 2011-12 requires retrospective application, and it is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The new standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, “Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (ASU 2011-08), which allows entities to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The adoption of the provisions of this accounting guidance effective January 1, 2012 is not expected to have any effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
64





 
3. Stock-Based Compensation
 
Stock-Based Benefit Plans
 
1994 Stock Incentive Plan
 
In November 1994, our Board of Directors and stockholders approved the 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended in May 2000 and June 2002 and approved by our Board of Directors and stockholders (the “1994 Plan”), which provides for the grant of equity awards such as stock options, restricted stock or restricted stock units to our employees, officers, directors and consultants. The 1994 Plan has an “evergreen provision” which automatically increases the number of shares of our common stock available for issuance under the 1994 Plan as of January 1 of each year by three percent of our outstanding common stock as of December 31 of the immediately preceding fiscal year. Under the 1994 Plan, we may grant options (“Incentive Stock Options”) within the meaning of Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code, or options not intended to qualify as Incentive Stock Options (“Nonstatutory Stock Options”).
 
The 1994 Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Subject to the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the Compensation Committee has the authority to select the employees, officers, directors and consultants to whom options are granted and determine the terms of each option, including (i) the number of shares of common stock covered by the option, (ii) when the option becomes exercisable, (iii) the option’s exercise price, which must be at least 100% of the fair market value of the common stock as of the date of grant with respect to Incentive Stock Options, and (iv) the duration of the option (which may not exceed ten years). All options generally vest over three to five years, expire ten years from the grant date, are granted at exercise prices equal to the market price of our stock at grant date and are nontransferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The Compensation Committee has delegated to our Chief Executive Officer the authority to approve option grants to eligible employees under the 1994 Plan (other than executive officers), subject to certain numerical limits. The Compensation Committee has delegated to our Chief Executive Officer the authority to approve option grants to eligible employees under the 1994 Plan (other than executive officers), subject to certain numerical limits.
 
At December 31, 2011, a total of 778,200 shares of authorized and unissued shares were available for future grants. All options granted through December 31, 2011 have been Nonstatutory Stock Options. We satisfy stock option exercises with newly issued shares.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and 2008, we recognized stock-based compensation expense of $2.4 million, $2.4 million and $1.7 million in “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, and related deferred income tax benefits of $0.9 million, $0.9 million and $0.8 million.
 
Valuation Assumptions
 
We estimated the grant date fair value of each stock option grant awarded during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 pursuant to ASC 718 using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and management assumptions made regarding various factors which require extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates. In estimating our assumption regarding the expected term for options granted during the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we computed the expected term based upon an analysis of historical exercises of stock options by our employees. We computed our expected volatility using historical prices of our common stock for a period equal to the expected term of the options, which we determined to be six years for grants made during each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The risk free interest rate was determined using the implied yield on U.S. Treasury issues with a remaining term within the contractual life of the award. Each year, we estimated an annual forfeiture rate based on our historical forfeiture data, which rate is revised, if necessary, in future periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
 
The following table presents the weighted average assumptions we used in each of the following years:
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Risk free interest rate  

  

1.84 

% 

2.51 

%  


Expected volatility  

  

75 

% 

78 

%  


Expected term (in years)  

  

6 

  

6 

   


Expected dividend yield  

  

None 

  

None 

    
 
65





 
Stock-Based Payment Award Activity
 
Stock Options
 
The following table summarizes our stock option activity during the year ended December 31, 2011 and stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011 for the above plans:
 



  

  

Number 

  

Weighted   Average   Exercise   Price 

  

Weighted   Average   Remaining   Contractual   Term (in years) 

  

Aggregate   Intrinsic   Value   (in thousands) 

   


Outstanding at December 31, 2010  

  

3,339,585 

  

$ 

5.81 

  

  

  

  

   


Granted  

  

495,000 

  

7.79 

  

  

  

  

   


Exercised  

  

(276,428 

) 

2.76 

  

  

  

  

   


Forfeited  

  

(78,369 

) 

6.48 

  

  

  

  

   


Expired/cancelled  

  

(719 

) 

0.77 

  

  

  

  

   


Outstanding at December 31, 2011  

  

3,479,069 

  

6.32 

  

6.35 

  

$ 

3,371 

   


Exercisable at December 31, 2011  

  

2,256,340 

  

6.38 

  

5.24 

  

2,293 

   












  
 
The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated for in-the-money options based on the difference between the exercise price of the underlying awards and the closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2011, which was $6.28.
 



  

  

Years Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Weighted average grant-date fair value of options   granted during the period  

  

$ 

5.16 

  

$ 

3.32 

  

$ 

4.87 

   


Total intrinsic value of options exercised during   the period (in thousands)  

  

1,821 

  

95 

  

805 

   


Total fair value of shares vested during the   period (in thousands)  

  

2,387 

  

2,290 

  

1,603 

   











  
 
On March 6, 2012, our Compensation Committee approved and granted, under our 1994 Plan, the award of options to purchase 200,000 shares of our common stock to Mark T. McGrath, our new President. These options were issued at an exercise price of $5.54 with a ten-year life, and vest quarterly over a five-year term.
 
Restricted Stock
 
On August 21, 2009, our Compensation Committee approved and granted, under our 1994 Plan, the award of 7,500 shares of restricted stock to each of our non-employee members of the board for a total award of 22,500 shares of restricted stock. The restricted stock awards each vested quarterly in equal amounts over a one year period from the date of grant. In accordance with ASC 718 (formerly SFAS 123R), we valued the restricted stock award at fair value as of the grant date and we recognized compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The grant date fair values of restricted stock awards which vested during 2010 and 2009 were $134,831 and $125,224.
 
As of December 31, 2011, there was $4.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested outstanding stock options. We expect to recognize these costs over a weighted average period of 3.08 years.
 
4. Acquisitions
 
eCOST.com
 
On February 18, 2011, we acquired certain assets, including approximately $1 million of inventory, of eCOST.com, a subsidiary of PFSweb, Inc., for $2.3 million. Also, as part of this acquisition, we assumed certain liabilities related to a web-based promotional membership program available on eCOST.com’s website and liabilities with respect to customer warranty claims, credits, returns and refunds related to transactions of eCOST.com’s business or through the website from and after the acquisition date. eCOST.com is an online marketplace featuring an assortment of product categories, including but not limited to computers, networking, electronics and entertainment, TVs, monitors and projectors, cameras and camcorders, memory and storage, apparel, and sports and leisure items. The website also features a proprietary and patented shopping format, Bargain Countdown®, which amongst other features, offers limited 
 
66





 
time, limited quantity deals, and supports its premium online membership shopping club. eCOST.com commenced business in 1999 as a subsidiary of PC Mall. In September 2004, eCOST.com completed an initial public offering of approximately 19.8% of its outstanding common stock. In April 2005, we completed a spin-off of eCOST.com by distributing all of our remaining ownership interest in eCOST.com to our stockholders. In February 2006, eCOST.com was acquired by PFSweb in a stock for stock merger.
 
NSPI
 
In June 2010, Sarcom, Inc. (“SARCOM”), our wholly-owned subsidiary, completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Network Services Plus, Inc. (“NSPI”). NSPI, primarily a provider of hosted data center and managed IT services in the southeastern United States, had approximately 73 employees as of the closing date, 53 of whom are billable IT resources. The terms of the transaction included an initial purchase price of $7.8 million, less a customary hold-back to settle possible indemnity claims. In addition, we extinguished substantially all of NSPI’s indebtedness that existed immediately prior to the closing date of our acquisition. We have recorded identifiable intangible assets of $2.6 million related to customer relationships, $0.5 million related to trademarks and $0.3 million related to a non-compete agreement, with estimated useful lives of 10, 10 and 4 years, respectively. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement, NSPI’s shareholders can earn additional consideration based on the performance of the NSPI business over two years following the acquisition, up to a total of approximately $5.2 million. In accordance with ASC 805, “Purchase Price Allocations” (formerly FAS No. 141R), based on a valuation of the fair value of the contingent consideration, we initially recorded additional goodwill and a corresponding liability of $3.2 million for future earnout payments. Such valuation is based upon management’s initial forecasts of expected profitability of NSPI during the earnout period, and will be updated, if necessary, in future periods with adjustments reflected in our consolidated statement of operations. In 2011, we recorded an adjustment to reduce the earnout liability by $1.2 million to reflect the decrease in estimated fair value of the earnout liability, and such adjustment is reflected as “Revaluation of earnout liability” on our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
5. Property and Equipment
 
Property and equipment consisted of the following (in thousands):
 



  

  

At December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Computers, software, machinery and equipment  

  

$ 

56,217 

  

$ 

47,665 

   


Leasehold improvements  

  

4,660 

  

6,224 

   


Furniture and fixtures  

  

4,266 

  

3,249 

   


Building and improvements  

  

7,119 

  

1,725 

   


Land  

  

8,264 

  

912 

   


Software development and other equipment in   progress  

  

4,858 

  

3,949 

   


Subtotal  

  

85,384 

  

63,724 

   


Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization  

  

(40,639 

) 

(41,873 

)  


Property and equipment, net  

  

$ 

44,745 

  

$ 

21,851 

    
 
Depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment, including fixed assets under capital leases, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 totaled $7.8 million, 6.3 million and $4.0 million.
 
In March 2011, we completed the purchase of the real property comprising approximately 82,000 square feet of office space located at 1940 East Mariposa Avenue, El Segundo, California, which became our new corporate headquarters. We moved into this building from our current headquarters located in Torrance, California in November 2011. The total purchase price was $9.6 million. Based on the proportionate appraised values, we allocated $7.4 million of the purchase price to land and $2.2 million to building. We made certain improvements to the property and made purchases of additional furniture and equipment totaling approximately $7.6 million as of December 31, 2011.
 
In June 2011, we entered into a credit agreement to finance the purchase and improvement of this real property. The credit agreement provides a commitment for a loan up to $10.9 million of which there was $7.2 million outstanding at December 31, 2011. See Note 7 below for more information. In February 2012, we drew down an additional $2.9 million on this facility. Principal repayment began in March 2012.
 
In February 2012 we entered into capital lease agreements with US Bank for approximately $3.0 million for various furniture and equipment at our El Segundo headquarters office. We expect to enter into approximately $1.3 million of additional capital lease agreements in the near term.
 
67





 
6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets
 
Goodwill
 
The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill were as follows (in thousands):
 



  

  

SMB 

  

MME 

  

Public   Sector 

  

MacMall 

  

OnSale 

  

Corporate &   Other 

  

Consolidated 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance at December 31, 2009  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

19,291 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

19,291 

   


Acquisition of NSPI 

  

— 

  

6,219 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

6,219 

   


Balance at December 31, 2010  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

25,510 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

25,510 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance at December 31, 2011  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

25,510 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

25,510 

    
 
Intangible Assets
 
The following table sets forth the amounts recorded for intangible assets (in thousands):
 



  

  

Weighted   Average   Estimated 

  

At December 31, 2011 

  

At December 31, 2010 

   


  

  

Useful Lives   (years) 

  

Gross   Amount 

  

Accumulated   Amortization 

  

Net   Amount 

  

Gross   Amount 

  

Accumulated   Amortization 

  

Net   Amount 

   


Patent,   trademarks & URLs  

  

5 

  

$ 

5,715 

(1) 

$ 

372 

  

$ 

5,343 

  

$ 

5,925 

(1) 

$ 

203 

  

$ 

5,722 

   


Customer   relationships  

  

6 

  

10,600 

  

6,431 

  

4,169 

  

10,100 

  

4,672 

  

5,428 

   


Non-compete   agreements  

  

4 

  

1,070 

  

742 

  

328 

  

1,168 

  

569 

  

599 

   


Total   intangible assets  

  

  

  

$ 

17, 385 

  

$ 

7,545 

  

$ 

9,840 

  

$ 

17,193 

  

$ 

5,444 

  

$ 

11,749 

    


 



(1)  Included in the total amount for “Patent, trademarks & URLs” at December 31, 2011and 2010 are $2.9 million and $5.2 million, respectively, of trademarks with indefinite useful lives acquired in the SARCOM acquisition that are not amortized.
 
Amortization expense for intangible assets was $2.2 million, $1.9 million and $1.5 million in each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
Estimated amortization expense for intangible assets in each of the next five years and thereafter, as applicable, as of December 31, 2011 is as follows: $2.7 million in 2012, $1.8 million in 2013, $0.6 million in 2014, $0.5 million in 2015, $0.3 million in 2016 and $1.0 million thereafter.
 
7. Line of Credit and Note Payable
 
We maintain an asset-based revolving credit facility, as amended from time to time and most recently amended as of December 14, 2010, of up to $160 million from a lending unit of a large commercial bank. The credit facility provides for, among other things, (i) a credit limit of $160 million, which may be increased in increments of $5 million up to a total credit limit of $180 million, provided that any increase of the total credit limit in excess of $160 million is subject to, among other things, an acceptance and commitment by the lenders to such excess amount and a line increase fee not to exceed 0.65% of the increased amount; (ii) LIBOR interest rate options that we can enter into with no limit on the maximum outstanding principal balance which may be subject to a LIBOR interest rate option; and (iii) a maturity date of March 31, 2015. The credit facility, which functions as a working capital line of credit with a borrowing base of inventory and accounts receivable, including certain credit card receivables, also includes a monthly unused line fee of 0.25% per year on the amount, if any, by which the Maximum Credit, as defined in the agreement, then in effect, exceeds the average daily principal balance of the outstanding borrowings during the immediately preceding month. There can be no assurance that the lenders, if we elected to increase the credit limit, will commit to the remaining excess $20 million of credit beyond the $160 million in any future period. As a result, we may not be able to access the credit facility beyond its current limit of $160 million.
 
The credit facility is collateralized by substantially all of our assets. In addition to the security interest required by the credit facility, certain of our vendors have security interests in some of our assets related to their products. The credit facility has as its single financial covenant a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (FCCR) requirement in the event an FCCR triggering event has occurred. An FCCR triggering event is comprised of maintaining certain specified daily and average excess availability thresholds. In the event the FCCR covenant applies, the fixed charge coverage ratio is 1.0 to 1.0 for each twelve-month periods ending on or after December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with our financial covenant.
 
68





 
Loan availability under the line of credit fluctuates daily and is affected by many factors, including eligible assets on-hand, opportunistic purchases of inventory and availability and utilization of early-pay discounts. At December 31, 2011, we had $91.9 million of net working capital advances outstanding under the line of credit. At December 31, 2011, the maximum credit line was $160 million and we had $49.7 million available to borrow for working capital advances under the line of credit.
 
In connection with and as part of the amended credit facility, we entered into an amended term note on December 14, 2010 with a principal balance of $2.87 million, payable in equal monthly principal installments beginning on January 1, 2011, plus interest at the prime rate with a LIBOR option. The amended term note matures in December 2017 or in the event of a default, termination or non-renewal of our credit facility, is payable in its entirety upon demand by our lender. At December 31, 2011, we had $2.46 million outstanding under the amended term note. The remaining balance of our term note matures as follows: $410,000 annually in each of the years 2012 through 2017.
 
At December 31, 2011, our effective weighted average annual interest rate on outstanding amounts under the credit facility and term note was 2.36%.
 
At December 31, 2011, $0.2 million relating to the financing of our purchase of Microsoft AX (Axapta), which is a part of our ERP upgrade, were included in our “Notes payable — current” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. See “Other Planned Capital Projects” below for a detailed discussion.
 
In June 2011, we entered into a credit agreement to finance the acquisition and improvement of real property we purchased in March 2011 in El Segundo, California. The credit agreement provides for a lending commitment for a loan up to $10.9 million with a five year term and a 25 year straight-line principal repayment amortization period with a balloon payment at maturity. Interest is variable, indexed to Prime plus a spread of 0.375% or LIBOR plus a spread of 2.375% at our option, payable monthly. At December 31, 2011, we had $7.2 million outstanding under this credit agreement. The loan is secured by the real property and contains financial covenants substantially similar to those of our existing asset-based credit facility. In February 2012, we drew down an additional $2.9 million under this credit agreement. See Note 16 for more information.
 
The carrying amounts of our line of credit borrowings and notes payable approximate their fair value based upon the current rates offered to us for obligations of similar terms and remaining maturities.
 
8. Income Taxes
 
Our income tax expense consisted of the following for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Current 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Federal  

  

$ 

(377 

) 

$ 

966 

  

$ 

(1,701 

)  


State  

  

697 

  

583 

  

246 

   


Foreign  

  

86 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Total — Current  

  

406 

  

1,549 

  

(1,455 

)  


Deferred 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Federal  

  

1,916 

  

2,846 

  

3,998 

   


State  

  

245 

  

238 

  

146 

   


Foreign  

  

473 

  

243 

  

129 

   


Total — Deferred  

  

2,634 

  

3,327 

  

4,273 

   


Total income tax expense  

  

$ 

3,040 

  

$ 

4,876 

  

$ 

2,818 

    
 
69





 
The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory rate to income before income taxes due to the effects of the following:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Expected taxes at federal statutory tax rate  

  

34.0 

% 

34.0 

% 

34.0 

%  


State income taxes, net of federal income tax   benefit  

  

3.8 

  

3.5 

  

3.8 

   


Change in valuation allowance  

  

7.8 

  

0.6 

  

(0.2 

)  


Income from foreign subsidiary  

  

— 

  

— 

  

5.6 

   


Non-deductible business expenses  

  

5.6 

  

2.0 

  

3.0 

   


Other  

  

(2.0 

) 

(1.0 

) 

(0.6 

)  


Total  

  

49.2 

% 

39.1 

% 

45.6 

%   
 
The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows at December 31 (in thousands):
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Deferred tax assets (liabilities): 

  

  

  

  

   


Accounts receivable  

  

$ 

632 

  

$ 

680 

   


Inventories  

  

170 

  

194 

   


Property and equipment  

  

(7,591 

) 

(2,879 

)  


Amortization  

  

(1,964 

) 

(1,933 

)  


Accrued expenses and reserves  

  

3,130 

  

2,828 

   


Foreign employment tax subsidy  

  

(1,969 

) 

(1,533 

)  


Tax credits and loss carryforwards  

  

4,929 

  

2,881 

   


Other  

  

(10 

) 

96 

   


Total deferred tax (liabilities) assets  

  

(2,673 

) 

334 

   


Valuation allowance  

  

(719 

) 

(237 

)  


Net total deferred tax (liabilities) assets  

  

$ 

(3,392 

) 

$ 

97 

    
 
The valuation allowance relates entirely to state net operating loss carryforwards generated by subsidiaries in a cumulative loss position.
 
Current deferred tax liabilities relating to foreign employment tax subsidy of $2.0 million and $1.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as provided in the table above, were included as part of “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
At December 31, 2011, we had state net operating loss carryforwards of $31.6 million, which begin to expire at the end of 2013, and federal net operating loss carryforwards and carrybacks of $12.7 million, which begin to expire at the end of 2024. $5.3 million of the federal net operating loss carryforwards and $2.5 million of the state net operating loss carryforwards relate to pre-acquisition losses from an acquired subsidiary and, accordingly, are subject to annual limitations as to their use under the provisions of IRC Section 382. As such, the extent to which these losses may offset future taxable income may be limited.
 
The exercise of stock options and warrants in 2011 and 2010 resulted in no tax benefits in 2011 and approximately $34,000 in 2010 that have been reflected as a reduction of taxes payable and an increase to additional paid-in capital.
 
Accounting for Income Taxes
 
We account for income taxes under the liability method. Under this method, deferred income taxes are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the tax bases and financial reporting amounts of existing assets and liabilities. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon sufficient taxable income within the carryback years and the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Management considers taxable income in carryback years, if carryback is permitted in the tax law, the projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon the level of historical taxable income and the projections for future taxable income over the periods when the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is more likely than not that we will realize all of these deductible differences. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward periods are reduced.
 
70





 
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
 
At December 31, 2011, we had no material unrecognized tax positions.  For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we did not recognize any interest or penalties for uncertain tax positions. There were also no accrued interest and penalties at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Since we did not have any unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011, we do not, accordingly, anticipate any significant increases or decreases within the next twelve months.
 
We have elected to classify interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities, when applicable, as part of interest and penalty expense in our consolidated statement of income rather than as a component of income tax expense.
 
We are subject to U.S. and foreign income tax examinations for years subsequent to 2007, and state income tax examinations for years following 2006. In addition, certain federal and state net operating loss carryforwards generated after 2003 and 1997, respectively, and used in a subsequent year, may still be adjusted by a taxing authority upon examination.
 
9. Commitments and Contingencies
 
Commitments
 
We lease office and warehouse space and equipment under various non-cancelable operating leases which provide for minimum annual rentals and escalations based on increases in real estate taxes and other operating expenses. We also have minimum commitments under non-cancelable contracts for services relating to telecommunications, IT maintenance, financial services and employment contracts with certain employees (which consist of severance arrangements that, if exercised, would become payable in less than one year). In addition, we have obligations under capital leases for computers and related equipment, telecommunications equipment and software. As of December 31, 2011, minimum payments over the terms of applicable contracts were payable as follows (in thousands):
 



  

  

2012 

  

2013 

  

2014 

  

2015 

  

2016 

  

Thereafter 

  

Total 

   


Operating lease obligations  

  

$ 

5,121 

  

$ 

4,680 

  

$ 

3,503 

  

$ 

2,146 

  

$ 

1,568 

  

$ 

227 

  

$ 

17,245 

   


Capital lease obligations  

  

1,490 

  

1,401 

  

697 

  

353 

  

147 

  

— 

  

4,088 

   


Other commitments (a)  

  

8,411 

  

1,123 

  

384 

  

50 

  

— 

  

— 

  

9,968 

   


Standby Letters of Credit (b)  

  

10,000 

  

— 

  

98 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

10,098 

   


Earn-out (c)  

  

1,100 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,100 

   


Total minimum payments  

  

$ 

26,122 

  

$ 

7,204 

  

$ 

4,682 

  

$ 

2,549 

  

$ 

1,715 

  

$ 

227 

  

$ 

42,499 

    


 






(a) 

  

Other   commitments consist of minimum commitments under non-cancelable contracts for   services relating to telecommunications, IT maintenance, financial   services and employment contracts with certain employees (which consist of   severance arrangements that, if exercised, would become payable in less than   one year).  


(b) 

  

Standby   LOCs are commitments issued to third party beneficiaries, underwritten by a   third party bank, representing funding responsibility in the event of third   party demands or contingent events. The outstanding balance of our standby   LOCs reduces the amount available to us from our revolving credit facility.   The LOC amounts in the table above represent the amount of commitment   expiration per period presented. There were no claims made against any   standby LOCs during the year ended December 31, 2011.  


(c) 

  

Earn-out   represents the fair value of the future contingent liability, arising from   our acquisition of NSPI, as it is recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet   under “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities.” At completion of   acquisition of NSPI in June 2010, the fair value of the earn-out was   based on an initial valuation of the fair value of the contingent consideration,   under which the sellers of NSPI can earn up to a total of approximately $5.2   million over a two year period commencing from the acquisition date. The   earn-out amounts in the table above represent the fair value of the   contingent liability at December 31, 2011 and the respective earn-out   periods.   
 
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, total rent expense, net of sublease income, totaled $6.6 million, $6.6 million and $6.3 million. Some of the leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses, and require us to pay taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
 
In February 2012, AF Services, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a capital lease agreements with US Bank for approximately $3.0 million of various furniture and equipment at our El Segundo headquarters office. See Note 16 below for more detailed information.
 
On February 28, 2012, we drew down an additional $2.9 million on our existing credit facility which finances the acquisition and improvement of the real property we purchased in El Segundo, California.  Principal repayment began in March 2012.
 
71





 
ERP and Web Infrastructure Upgrades
 
We are currently upgrading many of our IT systems. We have purchased licenses for Microsoft Dynamics AX (Axapta) and other related tools, such as workflow software, web development tools and other related items, to upgrade our ERP and eCommerce systems. We initiated the implementation and upgrade of our eCommerce system in the second half of 2008 and have completed and launched a new generation of our public sites at macmall.com, onsale.com, ecost.com and pcmall.com. We are currently working on the implementation of the ERP modules and the upgrade of the ERP systems, including additional enhancements and features, and we expect to be complete with all phases of the implementation of the ERP systems by 2013. We believe the implementation and upgrade should help us to gain further efficiencies across our organization. Based on our estimates, which are subject to change, we currently expect to incur a total cost of up to $14 million for all these IT system upgrades. To date, we have incurred approximately $10.8 million of such costs. In addition to the above expenditures, we expect on an ongoing basis to make periodic upgrades to our IT systems.
 
In addition to the upgrades to our IT systems, in July 2008, we entered into an agreement with Cisco Systems for the purchase and implementation of various solutions to upgrade our current infrastructure for up to approximately $4.6 million. The purchase is financed through a capital lease over a five year term. Our plan is to provide a unified platform for our entire company and to provide a robust and efficient contact center. To date, we have received all of the Cisco equipment. We completed the implementation of the Cisco solution across all of our locations in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
We are not currently a party to any legal proceedings with loss contingencies, which are expected to be material. From time to time, we receive claims of and become subject to consumer protection, employment, intellectual property and other litigation related to the conduct of our business. Any such litigation could result in a material amount of legal or related expenses and be time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. In connection with any such litigation, we may be subject to significant damages or equitable remedies relating to the operation of our business. Any such litigation may materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
10. Stockholders’ Equity
 
In October 2008, our Board of Directors approved a discretionary common stock repurchase program for up to $10 million of our common stock in aggregate with all other repurchases made under any repurchase programs following the date of such Board of Directors’ approval. This repurchase program effectively superseded an earlier repurchase program adopted in 1996. Under this new program, the shares may be repurchased from time to time at prevailing market prices, through open market or unsolicited negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. We expect that the repurchase of our common stock under this new program will be financed with existing working capital and amounts available under our existing credit facility. No limit was placed on the duration of the repurchase program. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that we will repurchase. Subject to applicable securities laws, repurchases may be made at such times and in such amounts as our management deems appropriate. The program can also be discontinued at any time management feels additional purchases are not warranted.
 
During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we repurchased a total of 432,012 shares, 200,084 shares and 582,779 shares of our common stock at an annual aggregate cost of $2.6 million, $0.9 million and $2.6 million, respectively. The repurchased shares were recorded as treasury stock. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had total treasury shares of 2,373,184 and 1,941,172 shares, respectively. The common shares held as treasury stock are available for general corporate purposes.
 
We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and our credit facility prohibits us from paying any cash dividends on our capital stock. Therefore, we do not currently anticipate paying dividends; we intend to retain any earnings to finance the growth and development of our business.
 
11. Earnings Per Common Share
 
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the reported periods. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur under the treasury stock method if stock options and other commitments to issue common stock were exercised, except in loss periods where the effect would be antidilutive. Potential common shares of approximately 1,110,000, 1,395,000 and 1,666,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because the effect of their inclusion would be antidilutive.
 
72





 
The reconciliation of the amounts used in the basic and diluted EPS computation was as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 



  

  

Income 

  

Shares 

  

Per Share   Amounts 

   


Year Ended December 31,   2011: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic EPS 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

3,132 

  

12,225 

  

$ 

0.26 

   


Effect of dilutive securities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Dilutive effect of stock options  

  

— 

  

251 

  

  

   


Diluted EPS 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Adjusted net income  

  

$ 

3,132 

  

12,476 

  

$ 

0.25 

   


Year Ended December 31,   2010: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic EPS 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

7,573 

  

12,220 

  

$ 

0.62 

   


Effect of dilutive securities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Dilutive effect of stock options  

  

— 

  

248 

  

  

   


Diluted EPS 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Adjusted net income  

  

$ 

7,573 

  

12,468 

  

$ 

0.61 

   


Year Ended December 31,   2009: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic EPS 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

3,357 

  

12,373 

  

$ 

0.27 

   


Effect of dilutive securities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Dilutive effect of stock options  

  

— 

  

302 

  

  

   


Diluted EPS 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Adjusted net income  

  

$ 

3,357 

  

12,675 

  

$ 

0.26 

    
 
12. Employee & Non-Employee Benefits
 
401(k) Savings Plan
 
We maintain a 401(k) Savings Plan which covers substantially all full-time employees who meet the plan’s eligibility requirements. Participants are allowed to make tax-deferred contributions up to limitations specified by the Internal Revenue Code. We make 25% matching contributions for amounts that do not exceed 4% of the participants’ compensation. The matched contributions to the employees are subject to a 5 year vesting provision, with credit given towards vesting for employment during prior years. We made matching contributions to the plan totaling approximately $493,000, $733,000 and $406,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Restricted Stock, Stock Warrants and Options Issued to Non-employees
 
On September 15, 2011, our Compensation Committee approved and granted, under our 1994 Plan, the award of options to purchase 10,000 shares of our common stock to each of our non-employee members of our board. These options were issued at an exercise price of $6.24 with a ten-year term, and vests quarterly over a two-year term.
 
On August 18, 2010, our Compensation Committee approved and granted, under our 1994 Plan, the award of options to purchase 10,000 shares of our common stock to each of our non-employee members of our board. These options were issued at an exercise price of $4.22 with a ten-year term, and vests quarterly over a two-year term. See Note 3 for more information on our accounting for stock-based compensation.
 
On March 2, 2010, our Compensation Committee approved and granted, under our 1994 Plan, the award of options to purchase 20,000 shares of our common stock to a third-party investor relations consultant. The options were issued at an exercise price of $4.76 with a five-year term and vest quarterly over a one-year term. We valued the options at fair value at grant date based on a Black-Scholes fair value calculation and the options were measured at fair value at each subsequent reporting period, with changes in value recorded over the twelve month performance period of the option.
 
73





 
On August 21, 2009 and July 31, 2008, our Compensation Committee approved and granted, under our 1994 Plan, the award of 7,500 shares and 4,000 shares, respectively, of restricted stock to each of our non-employee members of our board for a total award of 22,500 shares and 12,000 shares of restricted stock. The restricted stock awards each vest quarterly in equal amounts over a one year period from the date of grant.
 
13. Comprehensive Income
 
Our total comprehensive income was as follows for the periods presented (in thousands): 
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

3,132 

  

$ 

7,573 

  

$ 

3,357 

   


Other comprehensive income (loss): 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Foreign currency translation adjustments  

  

(209 

) 

354 

  

849 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total comprehensive income  

  

$ 

2,923 

  

$ 

7,927 

  

$ 

4,206 

    
 
14. Segment Information
 
Our five operating segments, SMB, MME, Public Sector, MacMall and OnSale, are primarily aligned based upon their respective customer base. We include corporate related expenses such as legal, accounting, information technology, product management and certain pre-sales, value-added support services and other administrative costs that are not otherwise included in our operating segments in Corporate & Other. We allocate our resources to and evaluate the performance of our segments based on operating income. For more information, see Note 1 above. Summarized segment information for our continuing operations for the periods presented is as follows (in thousands): 
 



  

  

SMB 

  

MME 

  

Public   Sector 

  

MacMall 

  

OnSale 

  

Corporate &   Other 

  

Consolidated 

   


Year Ended December 31,   2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

509,463 

  

$ 

532,402 

  

$ 

181,795 

  

$ 

190,237 

  

$ 

43,307 

  

$ 

(1,985 

) 

$ 

1,455,219 

   


Gross profit  

  

67,205 

  

81,483 

  

16,908 

  

20,465 

  

4,679 

  

(252 

) 

190,488 

   


Depreciation and amortization expense(1)  

  

8 

  

3,650 

  

179 

  

468 

  

359 

  

5,380 

  

10,044 

   


Operating profit (loss)  

  

36,899 

  

27,582 

  

1,748 

  

4,553 

  

(4,563 

) 

(56,763 

) 

9,456 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Year Ended December 31,   2010 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

487,865 

  

$ 

493,733 

  

$ 

187,331 

  

188,677 

  

$ 

10,857 

  

$ 

(149 

) 

$ 

1,368,314 

   


Gross profit  

  

60,324 

  

75,301 

  

14,189 

  

20,345 

  

1,059 

  

77 

  

171,295 

   


Depreciation and amortization expense(1)  

  

15 

  

3,103 

  

210 

  

432 

  

— 

  

4,397 

  

8,157 

   


Operating profit (loss)  

  

31,362 

  

23,190 

  

737 

  

5,365 

  

(36 

) 

(46,150 

) 

14,468 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Year Ended December 31,   2009 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

368,846 

  

$ 

382,725 

  

$ 

173,957 

  

$ 

201,617 

  

$ 

10,902 

  

$ 

14 

  

$ 

1,138,061 

   


Gross profit  

  

47,259 

  

65,182 

  

18,300 

  

21,221 

  

870 

  

184 

  

153,016 

   


Depreciation and amortization expense(1)  

  

43 

  

2,506 

  

213 

  

119 

  

— 

  

2,716 

  

5,597 

   


Operating profit (loss)  

  

23,048 

  

18,613 

  

5,847 

  

3,793 

  

(607 

) 

(42,952 

) 

7,742 

    

 


(1) Primary fixed assets relating to network and servers are managed by the Corporate headquarters. As such, depreciation expense relating to such assets is included as part of Corporate & Other.
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had total consolidated assets of $393.3 million and $334.1 million. Our management does not have available to them and does not use total assets measured at the segment level in allocating resources. Therefore, such information relating to segment assets is not provided herein.
 
Sales of our products and services are made to customers primarily within the U.S.  During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, less than 1% of our total net sales were made to customers outside of the continental U.S. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
74





 
Our property and equipment, net, were located in the following countries as of the periods presented (in thousands):
 



  

  

At December 31, 

   


Location: 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


U.S.  

  

$ 

43,638 

  

$ 

20,848 

  

$ 

16,235 

   


Philippines  

  

668 

  

566 

  

516 

   


Canada  

  

439 

  

437 

  

340 

   


Property and equipment, net  

  

$ 

44,745 

  

$ 

21,851 

  

$ 

17,091 

    
 
15. Related Party Transactions
 
In February 2009, we entered into a Software License and Maintenance and Support Agreement with Eruces, Inc., a Delaware corporation, pursuant to which Eruces licensed data security technology to our company. Dr. Bassam Khulusi and Sam Khulusi, each of whom is a brother of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frank Khulusi, together beneficially own a majority of the outstanding voting stock of Eruces. Ronald Reck, a member of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee and the chairman of our Compensation Committee, is a minority stockholder in Eruces. The Eruces technology licensed under the agreement is proprietary encryption software that was independently identified by our Director of Security as the best solution for certain of our data security needs. The transactions contemplated by the agreement were approved by the independent members of our Board of Directors and Audit Committee in accordance with our Audit Committee Charter and our policy for approval of related party transactions. The agreement provides for a one-time license fee of $270,300 in consideration for a worldwide, non-exclusive, perpetual and irrevocable license to use the software, a one-time $23,625 installation and integration fee and annual support fees in the initial amount of $40,545.
 
We have recently engaged Eruces to provide services related to enhancement logic to encrypt certain data and preserve the data’s initial format. These services are being provided at a one-time cost of $30,000.
 
16. Subsequent Events
 
In February 2012 we entered into capital lease agreements with US Bank for approximately $3.0 million for various furniture and equipment at our El Segundo headquarters office. We expect to enter into $1.3 million of additional capital lease agreements in the near term.
 
In February 2012, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries entered into an agreement with Nautilus Group, Inc. (the “Buyer”) to sell certain real property to the Buyer for a total cash sales price of $17.5 million. The real property is located in Santa Monica, California and includes approximately 32,500 square feet of land together with a building of approximately 9,750 square feet.  The building is currently being used by our subsidiary as a technology products retail store. The sale of the property will result in a book gain of approximately $15.9 million. Until May 13, 2012 the (“Contingency Date”), the Buyer is entitled to terminate the agreement for any reason while it conducts due diligence related to the property.  The agreement also contains other customary closing conditions to the purchase and sale of the real property.
 
In February 2012, we drew down an additional $2.9 million on our existing credit facility which finances the acquisition and improvement of the real property we purchased in El Segundo, California.  Principal repayment began in March 2012.
 
* * *
 
75





 
PC MALL, INC.
 
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
 



  

  

2011 

   


  

  

1st Quarter 

  

2nd Quarter 

  

3rd Quarter 

  

4th Quarter 

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

335,938 

  

$ 

361,910 

  

$ 

367,547 

  

$ 

389,824 

   


Gross profit  

  

43,469 

  

46,386 

  

50,201 

  

50,432 

   


Net income (loss)  

  

727 

  

1,036 

  

1,762 

  

(393 

)  


Basic and diluted earnings   (loss) per common share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

$ 

0.06 

  

$ 

0.08 

  

$ 

0.14 

  

$ 

(0.03 

)  


Diluted  

  

0.06 

  

0.08 

  

0.14 

  

(0.03 

)   
 



  

  

2010 

   


  

  

1st Quarter 

  

2nd Quarter 

  

3rd Quarter 

  

4th Quarter 

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

289,854 

  

$ 

316,983 

  

$ 

336,099 

  

$ 

425,378 

   


Gross profit  

  

38,029 

  

40,555 

  

43,240 

  

49,471 

   


Net income  

  

173 

  

1,363 

  

2,120 

  

3,917 

   


Basic and diluted earnings per   common share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

$ 

0.01 

  

$ 

0.11 

  

$ 

0.17 

  

$ 

0.32 

   


Diluted  

  

0.01 

  

0.11 

  

0.17 

  

0.32 

    
 
76





 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
None.
 
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
 
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
 
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of our most recent fiscal year. Based upon this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011.
 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) occurred during the fourth quarter of 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:
 
·              pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets;
·              provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and
·              provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officers, has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making its assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management used the criteria described in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment and those criteria, management believes that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.
 
The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
 
77





 
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
 
The following disclosure would otherwise be filed on Form 8-K under the heading “Item 5.02 — Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.”
 
On March 14, 2012, our Board of Directors approved and adopted a new executive incentive bonus plan and certain additional separate individual bonus plans for our executive officers to be effective for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012. The new executive bonus plans were approved and recommended to the Board of Directors by the Compensation Committee after consideration by the Committee of our compensation philosophies, principles and processes as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 29, 2011. These philosophies, principles and processes provide for periodic review by the Committee of the performance of our executive officers, the components of their compensation and the effectiveness of our compensation programs in rewarding the contributions of our executive officers towards enhancing our specific business goals while retaining and motivating high quality individuals. In adopting the new executive bonus plans for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, the Committee considered a 2010 report from an independent third party compensation consultant, Towers Watson, together with other recent competitive market data.
 
The general executive bonus plans cover the following executive officers, with applicable incentive targets under the plans indicated as a percentage of base salary for each as follows:
 



Name 

  

Title 

  

Total Target 

  

Executive   Quantitative Plan   % of Target 

  

Executive   Qualitative Plans   % of Target 

   


Frank Khulusi 

  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

  

50% of base salary 

  

100 

% 

0 

%  


Mark McGrath 

  

President 

  

50% of base salary 

  

100 

% 

0 

%  


Brandon LaVerne 

  

Chief Financial Officer 

  

40% of base salary 

  

100 

% 

0 

%  


Kristin Rogers 

  

EVP, Sales and Marketing 

  

40% of base salary 

  

67 

% 

33 

%  


Rob Newton 

  

EVP, General Counsel 

  

40% of base salary 

  

0 

% 

100 

%(1)  


Joseph Hayek 

  

EVP, Corporate Development and Investor Relations 

  

40% of base salary 

  

100 

%(2) 

0 

%   
 

(1)          Mr. Newton does not participate in the executive quantitative plan based on an agreement between the company and Mr. Newton, which was originally entered into in June of 2004 in an effort to avoid any conflict of interest in the outcome of his legal advice to the company.
(2)          Mr. Hayek’s plan calls for a minimum annual payment under his bonus plan of 20% of his base salary, regardless of quantitative achievement.
 
Executive Quantitative Plan
 
The executive quantitative plan will be funded at the above amounts if the company achieves 100% of a target of EBITDA for the 2012 calendar year. EBITDA is defined under the plan as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and adjusted for non-recurring special charges, if any, to be excluded from the calculation of EBITDA in the discretion of the Compensation Committee, including, but not limited to non-cash adjustments such as goodwill and intangible asset adjustments, material unforeseen litigation and restructuring and related severance costs.
 
The plan also has a minimum EBITDA for any quantitative incentive bonuses to be paid under the plan and contains incentive bonus decelerators based on performance below the performance target. If the company’s performance falls below the performance target, but is at least 90% of the performance target, the incentive bonuses may be reduced by a percentage of the incentive bonus target equal to two times the percentage points by which EBITDA falls below the performance target. For example, if the company achieves 90% of the performance target, incentive bonuses under the plan may be funded at 80% of the target incentive bonus amounts described above.
 
Additional decelerators will apply if the company’s performance is between 80% and 90% of the performance target.  In such event, in addition to the first decelerator described above for performance between 90% and 100% of the performance target, the incentive bonus amounts may be further decreased by an additional eight times the percentage points by which EBITDA falls below 90% of the performance target.  For example, if the company achieves 85% of the performance target, incentive bonuses under the plan may be funded at 40% of the incentive bonus amounts described above.  If the company achieves less than 80% of the performance target, the plan will not be funded, and no incentive bonuses will be paid under the plan.
 
78





 
The plan also contains accelerators under which the incentive bonus amounts can exceed the above described target incentive bonus amounts. If the company’s performance is between 100% and 110% of the performance target, the incentive bonuses may be increased at a rate of two times the percentage points by which EBITDA exceeds 100% of the performance target.  For example, if the company achieves 110% of the performance target, the incentive bonuses may be paid at 120% of the above described incentive bonus target amounts.
 
Additional accelerators are available if the company’s performance is between 111% and 120% of the performance target. In such event, in addition to the first accelerator described above for performance between 100% and 110% of the performance target, the incentive bonus amounts may be further increased by an additional four times the percentage points by which the performance target exceeds 110%. For example, if the company achieves 120% of the performance target, the plan may be funded and incentive bonuses paid at 160% of the above described incentive bonus target amounts.
 
Further accelerators are available if the company’s performance is between 121% and 127% of the performance target.  In such event, in addition to the two accelerators described above for performance between 100% and 120% of the performance target, the incentive bonus amounts may be further increased by an additional six times the percentage points by which the performance target exceeds 120%.  For example, if the company achieves 125% of the performance target, the plan may be funded and incentive bonuses paid at 190% of the above described incentive bonus target amounts, with a maximum funding of 202% of the incentive bonus targets. If the company achieves 127% or more of the performance target, the plan may be funded and incentive bonuses paid at 202% of the above described incentive bonus target amounts.
 
Individual Qualitative Plans
 
In addition to any incentive earned under the executive quantitative plan above, Ms. Rogers and Mr. Newton each have certain individual qualitative targets that are tailored for their respective responsibilities to the company based on recommendations made by the CEO and approved by the Compensation Committee and shall be paid quarterly or annually in the discretion of the Compensation Committee.
 
General Terms
 
All amounts funded under the any of the above plans may be increased or reduced for each executive officer at the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee based upon qualitative or quantitative factors which the Compensation Committee may deem appropriate from time to time. In addition to participation in the above described plans, all of our executive officers are eligible for additional discretionary bonuses as determined from time to time by our Compensation Committee.  No bonus is earned until it is paid under any of these plans. Therefore, in the event the employment of an executive eligible under these plans is terminated (either by the company or by the eligible executive, whether voluntarily or involuntarily) before a bonus is paid, the executive will not be deemed to have earned that bonus and will not be entitled to any portion of that bonus.
 
79





 
PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
Our executive officers as of March 15, 2012 and their respective ages and positions were as follows:
 



Name 

  

Age 

  

Position  


Frank   F. Khulusi 

  

45 

  

Chairman   of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  


Mark   T. McGrath 

  

47 

  

President  


Brandon   H. LaVerne 

  

40 

  

Chief   Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Accounting Officer  


Kristin   M. Rogers 

  

53 

  

Executive   Vice President — Sales and Marketing  


Robert   I. Newton 

  

46 

  

Executive   Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary  


Joseph   B. Hayek 

  

39 

  

Executive   Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations   
 
The following is a biographical summary of the experience of our executive officers:
 
Frank F. Khulusi is one of our co-founders and has served as our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since our inception in 1987, served as President until July 1999, and resumed the office of President in March 2001 through March 2012. Mr. Khulusi attended the University of Southern California.
 
Mark T. McGrath joined us in March 2012 and currently serves as President. Mr. McGrath was previously with Arrow Electronics from 2011 to 2012, where he most recently served as President of the company’s Arrow S3 subsidiary, which is a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) centric solutions provider. Prior to his service with Arrow, Mr. McGrath served as CEO of Synergy Solutions, a telecom services outsourcing company from 2009 to 2011. Mr. McGrath was the President of Insight Enterprises’ North American and Asia Pacific businesses from September 2006 until March 2009. He joined Insight in May 2005 as President of Insight Direct USA before being promoted to President and was promoted to President of Insight’s North America and APAC operating segments in September 2006.  From 1987 to 2005, Mr. McGrath worked for the IBM Corporation in various sales and general management roles. Mr. McGrath graduated from Miami University in Oxford, OH with a Bachelor’s Degree in business.
 
Brandon H. LaVerne has served as our Chief Financial Officer since July 2008. Mr. LaVerne previously served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer of the Company since June 2007, and continues to serve as our principal financial and accounting officer. Prior to June 2007, Mr. LaVerne served as Vice President and Controller and has been with us since October 1998. Prior to joining us, Mr. La Verne worked for Computer Sciences Corporation, and started his career with Deloitte and Touche LLP. Mr. LaVerne received his B.S. in Accounting from the University of Southern California and is a Certified Public Accountant.
 
Kristin M. Rogers joined us in February 2000 and was appointed as our Executive Vice President — Sales in June 2001. Ms. Rogers currently serves as Executive Vice President — Sales and Marketing and is responsible for all of our sales and marketing functions. Prior to joining us, Ms. Rogers held a variety of positions with Merisel, a computer wholesale distributor from 1980 through 1999, most recently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the U.S. region. In addition, Ms. Rogers spent one year (1997) as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the U.S. region for Micro Warehouse, a direct marketer based in Norwalk, Connecticut. Ms. Rogers received a B.A. degree in Political Science from Bates College in Lewiston, Maine. Ms. Rogers also serves as the President of the HP PC Mall Sales Advisory Council.
 
Robert I. Newton joined us in June 2004 and currently serves as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Newton was Of Counsel in the corporate practice group of Morrison & Foerster LLP from February 2000 until joining our company. Prior to his employment at Morrison & Foerster LLP, Mr. Newton was a partner in the corporate practice group of McDermott, Will & Emery LLP. Mr. Newton received a B.B.A., with highest honors, and a J.D., with honors, from the University of Texas at Austin.
 
Joseph B. Hayek joined us in March 2008 as Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Hayek worked in corporate finance at Raymond James & Associates, an investment banking firm, where he most recently served as a Senior Vice President and headed the firm’s Supply Chain Technologies Practice. Before joining Raymond James, Mr. Hayek was an investment banker in the technology group at Wachovia Securities. Mr. Hayek also worked for the Eastman Kodak Company. Mr. Hayek holds an MBA from Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business and a B.S. in Business from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio.
 
80





 
Information regarding our board of directors, audit committee, audit committee financial expert, code of business conduct and ethics, our nominating and corporate governance committee as well as other corporate governance matters is set forth under the caption “Election of Directors” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Information regarding Section 16(a) beneficial ownership compliance is set forth under the caption “Executive Compensation — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and principal financial and accounting officer. Our code of business conduct and ethics is posted in the “Investor Relations” section of our website at www.pcmall.com. Any amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of our code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions will be posted in the “Investor Relations” section of our website. We will provide a copy of our code of business conduct and ethics to any person, without charge, upon receipt of a written request directed to our Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
The information required by this item is set forth under the caption “Executive Compensation” and “Election of Directors -Director Compensation” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
The information required by this item is set forth under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Executive Compensation — Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 
The information required by this item is set forth under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,” “Election of Directors — Director Independence” and “Executive Compensation — Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
 
The information required by this item is set forth under the caption “Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
PART IV
 
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
(a)      The following documents are filed as part of this report:
 



  

  

  

  

Page Number  


(1) 

  

Financial   Statements 

  

See   Part II, Item 8, beginning on page 53  


  

  

  

  

   


(2) 

  

Financial   Statement Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the Years   Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 

  

See   Part IV, Item 15, beginning on page 81  


  

  

  

  

   


(3) 

  

Exhibits 

  

See   Part IV, Item 15, beginning on page 83   
 
81





 
PC MALL, INC.
 
SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
(in thousands)
 



  

  

Balance   at   Beginning   of Year 

  

Additions   Charged to   Operations 

  

Deduction   from   Reserves 

  

Balance   at   End of   Year 

   


Allowance for doubtful accounts for the years   ended: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 31, 2011  

  

$ 

1,802 

  

$ 

2,213 

  

$ 

(2,373 

)(a) 

$ 

1,642 

   


December 31, 2010  

  

2,740 

  

1,358 

  

(2,296 

)(a) 

1,802 

   


December 31, 2009  

  

4,241 

  

2,088 

  

(3,589 

)(a) 

2,740 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Reserve for inventory for the years ended: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 31, 2011  

  

$ 

1,313 

  

$ 

812 

  

$ 

(542 

)(b) 

$ 

1,583 

   


December 31, 2010  

  

1,571 

  

94 

  

(352 

)(b) 

1,313 

   


December 31, 2009  

  

1,713 

  

642 

  

(784 

)(b) 

1,571 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Sales returns reserve for the years ended: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 31, 2011  

  

$ 

1,569 

  

$ 

19,711 

  

$ 

(19,314 

)(c) 

$ 

1,966 

   


December 31, 2010  

  

1,690 

  

19,334 

  

(19,455 

)(c) 

1,569 

   


December 31, 2009  

  

1,653 

  

20,637 

  

(20,600 

)(c) 

1,690 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for   the years ended: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 31, 2011  

  

$ 

237 

  

$ 

497 

(d) 

$ 

(15 

)(d) 

$ 

719 

   


December 31, 2010  

  

165 

  

176 

(d) 

(104 

)(d) 

237 

   


December 31, 2009  

  

179 

  

115 

(d) 

(129 

)(d) 

165 

    


 






(a) 

Relates   primarily to accounts written-off.  


(b) 

Relates   primarily to excess and/or obsolete inventory written-off.  


(c) 

Relates   to sales returns received and applied to sales returns reserve.  


(d) 

Relates   primarily to changes in valuation allowances applied to various state net   operating loss carryforwards.   
 
82





 
EXHIBIT LIST
 



Exhibit   Number 

  

Description  


  

  

   


2.1 

  

Agreement   and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 17, 2007, by and among PC   Mall, Inc., Mall Acquisition 2, Inc., Sarcom, Inc., Zohar CDO   2003-1, Limited, Zohar II 2005-1, Limited, Charles E. Sweet, Robert F.   Angart & Company, John R. Strauss, Daniel A. Schneider and Howard   Schapiro (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current   Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File no. 0-25790) filed with   the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) on   September 18, 2007)  


  

  

   


3.1 

  

Amended   and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of PC Mall, Inc. (incorporated   herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1(C) to the Quarterly Report on   Form 10-Q of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter ended September 30,   2003 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on November 14,   2002)  


  

  

   


3.2 

  

Amended   and Restated Bylaws of PC Mall, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference   to Exhibit 3.2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on April 2, 2001 (the “2000   Form 10-K”))  


  

  

   


10.1* 

  

Amended   and Restated 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) for the period ended June 30,   2010 filed with the Commission on August 9, 2010)  


  

  

   


10.2* 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated January 1, 1995, between Creative Computers, Inc.   and Frank F. Khulusi (incorporated herein by reference to the Registration   Statement on Form S-1 of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 33-89572),   declared effective on April 4, 1995 (the “1995 Form S-1”))  


  

  

   


10.3* 

  

Amendment   to Employment Agreement made and entered into as of December 28, 2005,   by and between PC Mall, Inc. and Frank F. Khulusi (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of   PC Mall, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2005 (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on March 31, 2006 (the   “December 31, 2005 Form 10-K))  


  

  

   


10.4* 

  

Second   Amendment to Employment Agreement made and entered into as of   December 28, 2005, by and between PC Mall, Inc. and Frank F.   Khulusi (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the   December 31, 2005 Form 10-K)  


  

  

   


10.5* 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated January 20, 2000, between PC Mall, Inc. and   Kristin M. Rogers (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to   the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC Mall, Inc., for the year ended   December 31, 2001 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   April 1, 2002)  


  

  

   


10.6* 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated January 1, 1994, between Creative Computers, Inc.   and Daniel J. DeVries (incorporated herein by reference to the 1995 Form S-1)  


  

  

   


10.7* 

  

Severance   Agreement, dated January 31, 2006, between PC Mall Inc. and Daniel J.   DeVries (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current   Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed   with the Commission on February 3, 2006)  


  

  

   


10.8* 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated June 8, 2004, between PC Mall, Inc. and Rob Newton   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.54 to the Quarterly   Report on Form 10-Q of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter ended   June 30, 2004 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   August 11, 2004 (the “June 30, 2004 Form 10-Q”))  


  

  

   


10.9* 

  

Amendment   to Employment Agreement, dated March 22, 2005, between PC   Mall, Inc. and Rob Newton (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc.   (File No. 0-25790) filed with the commission on March 25, 2005)  


  

  

   


10.10* 

  

Severance   Agreement between AF Services, LLC and Brandon LaVerne (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q   of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on November 14, 2007 (the   “September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q”))  


  

  

   


10.11* 

  

Form of   Executive Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (full acceleration upon change   in control) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter   ended September 30, 2004 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the   Commission on November 15, 2004 (the “September 30, 2004   Form 10-Q”))  


  

  

   


10.12* 

  

Form of   Executive Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (partial acceleration upon   change in control) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.62 to   the September 30, 2004 Form 10-Q)   
 
83





 



10.13* 

  

Directors’   Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, amended and restated as of May 18, 1999   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly   Report on Form 10-Q of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter ended   June 30, 1999 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   August 16, 1999)  


  

  

   


10.14* 

  

Form of   Indemnification Agreement between PC Mall, Inc. and each of its   directors and executive officers (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.48 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2002 (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on March 31, 2003)  


  

  

   


10.15* 

  

Form of   Director Restricted Stock Bonus Award Agreement (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q)  


  

  

   


10.16 

  

Master   Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated September 1, 2004, between   PC Mall, Inc. and eCOST.com, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference   to Exhibit 10.56 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   September 8, 2004 (the “September 8, 2004 Form 8-K”))  


  

  

   


10.17 

  

Tax   Allocation and Indemnification Agreement, dated September 1, 2004,   between PC Mall, Inc. and eCOST.com, Inc. (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.57 to the September 8, 2004 Form 8-K)  


  

  

   


10.18 

  

Employee   Benefit Matters Agreement, dated September 1, 2004, between PC   Mall, Inc. and eCOST.com, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.58 to the September 8, 2004 Form 8-K)  


  

  

   


10.19 

  

Lease   Agreement, dated September 1, 2003, between PC Mall, Inc. and   Anderson Tully Company for the premises located at 4715 E. Shelby Drive,   Memphis, TN (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.63 to the   Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC Mall, Inc. for the year ended   December 31, 2004 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 31, 2005 (the “December 31, 2004 Form 10-K”))  


  

  

   


10.20 

  

Renewal   Letter for lease of property in Memphis, Tennessee, entered into on   October 2, 2006 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1   to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on October 6, 2006)  


  

  

   


10.21 

  

Lease   Agreement, dated June 11, 2003, among PC Mall, Inc., PC Mall   Canada, Inc. and Canaprev, Inc. for the premises located at 1100,   University, 2nd Floor, Montreal (Quebec) Canada (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.64 to the December 31, 2004 Form 10-K)  


  

  

   


10.22 

  

Addendum   to Lease Agreement, dated January 26, 2004, between PC Mall, Inc.,   PC Mall Canada, Inc. and Canaprev, Inc. for premises located at   1100 University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, dated January 26, 2004   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.70 to the   December 31, 2004 Form 10-K)  


  

  

   


10.23 

  

Lease   Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2001, by and between Sarcom   Properties, Inc. and Sarcom Desktop Solutions, Inc., as amended as   of December 1, 2002 and as of March 22, 2004 (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the September 30, 2007   Form 10-Q)  


  

  

   


10.24 

  

Addendum   No. 2, by and between Complexe Rue Universite S.E.C., PC Mall   Canada, Inc. and PC Mall, Inc., dated January 10, 2008   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report   on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the   Commission on January 15, 2008)  


  

  

   


10.25 

  

Asset   Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 7, 2006, by and among a   wholly-owned subsidiary of PC Mall Gov, Inc. GMRI and the shareholders   of GMRI (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current   Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed   with the Commission on September 12, 2006)  


  

  

   


10.26 

  

Joint   Stipulation of Settlement and Release made and entered into by and between   Plaintiff Nicole Atkins, Class Representative and Defendants PC   Mall, Inc. and PC Mall Sales, Inc. (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of   PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) for the period ended   March 31, 2007 filed with the Commission on May 15, 2007)  


  

  

   


10.27 

  

Registration   Rights Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2007, by and among PC   Mall, Inc., Zohar CDO 2003-1, Limited, Zohar II 2005-1, Limited, Charles   E. Sweet, Robert F. Angart & Company, John R. Strauss, Daniel A.   Schneider and Howard Schapiro (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2   to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on September 18, 2007)  


  

  

   


10.28+ 

  

Second   Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of   December 14, 2010, by and among PC Mall, Inc., wholly-owned   subsidiaries of PC Mall, Inc., Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC   (Western) and certain other financial institutions (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 25, 2011)   
 
84





 



10.29 

  

Agreement   for Purchase and Sale of Real Estate and Joint Escrow Instructions by and   between PC Mall, Inc. and Citibank N.A., dated as of January 7,   2011 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Annual   Report on Form 10-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed   with the Commission on March 25, 2011)  


  

  

   


10.30 

  

First   Amendment to Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Real Estate and Joint Escrow   Instructions, dated as of February 7, 2011 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 25, 2011)  


  

  

   


10.31 

  

Second   Amendment to Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Real Estate and Joint Escrow   Instructions, dated as of February 22, 2011 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 25, 2011)  


  

  

   


10.32 

  

Lease   Agreement, Executed By and Between SARCOM Properties, Inc. and AF   Services, LLC, effective January 1, 2010 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   February 26, 2010)  


  

  

   


10.33* 

  

Summary   of Executive Bonus Plan, adopted August 18, 2010 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of   PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) for the period ended   September 30, 2010 filed with the Commission on November 9, 2010)  


  

  

   


10.34* 

  

Summary   of Executive Bonus Plan, adopted March 14, 2012  


  

  

   


10.35* 

  

Summary   of Executive Salary and Bonus Arrangements  


  

  

   


10.36* 

  

Summary   of Director Compensation Arrangements (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.35 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) for the year ended December 31,   2009 filed with the Commission on March 16, 2010)  


  

  

   


10.37* 

  

Employment   Agreement, by and between PC Mall, Inc. and Joseph B. Hayek, dated   March 17, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to   the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on March 19, 2008)  


  

  

   


10.38* 

  

Amendment   to Employment Agreement made and entered into as of December 30, 2008,   by and between PC Mall, Inc. and Frank F. Khulusi (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of   PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 16, 2009)  


  

  

   


10.39 

  

Renewal   Letter, by and between WNI/Tennessee, L.P. and AF Services, LLC, dated   September 30, 2009 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   October 6, 2009)  


  

  

   


10.40 

  

First   Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement and   Consent, dated as of June 28, 2011, by and among PC Mall, Inc. and all of its domestic subsidiaries, certain   lenders and Well Fargo Capital Finance, LLC (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   July 1, 2011)  


  

  

   


10.41+ 

  

Second   Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement and   Consent, dated as of November 30, 2011, by and among PC Mall, Inc. and all of its domestic   subsidiaries, certain lenders and Well Fargo Capital Finance, LLC  


  

  

   


10.42* 

  

Employment   Agreement entered into by and between Mark T. McGrath and PC Mall, Inc.   on February 25, 2012  


  

  

   


10.43 

  

Agreement   of Purchase and Sale and Joint Escrow Instructions dated February 10,   2012 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report   on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the   Commission on February 16, 2012)  


  

  

   


21.1 

  

Subsidiaries   of PC Mall, Inc. as of December 31, 2011  


  

  

   


23.1 

  

Consent   of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  


  

  

   


31.1 

  

Certification   of the Chief Executive Officer of PC Mall, Inc. pursuant to Exchange Act   Rule 13a-14(a)   
 
85





 



31.2 

  

Certification   of the Chief Financial Officer of PC Mall, Inc. pursuant to Exchange Act   Rule 13a-14(a)  


  

  

   


32.1 

  

Certification   of the Chief Executive Officer of PC Mall, Inc. pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  


  

  

   


32.2 

  

Certification   of the Chief Financial Officer of PC Mall, Inc. pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  


  

  

   


101.INS* 

  

XBRL   Instance Document  


  

  

   


101.SCH* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Schema Document  


  

  

   


101.CAL* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document  


  

  

   


101.DEF* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document  


  

  

   


101.LAB* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document  


  

  

   


101.PRE* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document   
 




* 

Management   contract, or compensatory plan or arrangement.  


+ 

Confidential   portions omitted and filed separately with the U.S. Securities and Exchange   Commission pursuant to a request for   confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 promulgated under the   Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
 
***
 
86





 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 



  

PC   MALL, INC.  


  

(Registrant)  


  

   


Date:   March 15, 2012 

By: 

/s/   FRANK F. KHULUSI  


  

  

Frank   F. Khulusi  


  

  

Chief   Executive Officer   
 
POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Frank F. Khulusi and Brandon H. LaVerne, and each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 



Signature 

  

Title 

  

Date  


  

  

  

  

   


/s/   FRANK F. KHULUSI 

  

Chairman   and Chief Executive Officer 

  

   


Frank   F. Khulusi 

  

(Principal   Executive Officer) 

  

March 15, 2012  


  

  

  

  

   


/s/   BRANDON H. LAVERNE 

  

Chief   Financial Officer, Chief 

  

March 15, 2012  


Brandon   H. LaVerne 

  

Accounting   Officer and Treasurer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/   THOMAS A. MALOOF 

  

Director 

  

March 15, 2012  


Thomas   A. Maloof 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/   RONALD B. RECK 

  

Director 

  

March 15, 2012  


Ronald   B. Reck 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/   PAUL C. HEESCHEN 

  

Director 

  

March 15, 2012  


Paul   C. Heeschen 

  

  

  

    
 
***
 
87





 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 



Exhibit   Number 

  

Description  


  

  

   


2.1 

  

Agreement   and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 17, 2007, by and among PC   Mall, Inc., Mall Acquisition 2, Inc., Sarcom, Inc., Zohar CDO   2003-1, Limited, Zohar II 2005-1, Limited, Charles E. Sweet, Robert F.   Angart & Company, John R. Strauss, Daniel A. Schneider and Howard   Schapiro (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current   Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File no. 0-25790) filed with   the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) on   September 18, 2007)  


  

  

   


3.1 

  

Amended   and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of PC Mall, Inc. (incorporated   herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1(C) to the Quarterly Report on   Form 10-Q of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter ended September 30,   2003 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on November 14,   2002)  


  

  

   


3.2 

  

Amended   and Restated Bylaws of PC Mall, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference   to Exhibit 3.2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on April 2, 2001 (the “2000   Form 10-K”))  


  

  

   


10.1* 

  

Amended   and Restated 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) for the period ended June 30,   2010 filed with the Commission on August 9, 2010)  


  

  

   


10.2* 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated January 1, 1995, between Creative Computers, Inc.   and Frank F. Khulusi (incorporated herein by reference to the Registration   Statement on Form S-1 of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 33-89572),   declared effective on April 4, 1995 (the “1995 Form S-1”))  


  

  

   


10.3* 

  

Amendment   to Employment Agreement made and entered into as of December 28, 2005,   by and between PC Mall, Inc. and Frank F. Khulusi (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of   PC Mall, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2005 (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on March 31, 2006 (the   “December 31, 2005 Form 10-K))  


  

  

   


10.4* 

  

Second   Amendment to Employment Agreement made and entered into as of   December 28, 2005, by and between PC Mall, Inc. and Frank F.   Khulusi (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the   December 31, 2005 Form 10-K)  


  

  

   


10.5* 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated January 20, 2000, between PC Mall, Inc. and   Kristin M. Rogers (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to   the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC Mall, Inc., for the year ended   December 31, 2001 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   April 1, 2002)  


  

  

   


10.6* 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated January 1, 1994, between Creative Computers, Inc.   and Daniel J. DeVries (incorporated herein by reference to the 1995   Form S-1)  


  

  

   


10.7* 

  

Severance   Agreement, dated January 31, 2006, between PC Mall Inc. and Daniel J.   DeVries (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current   Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed   with the Commission on February 3, 2006)  


  

  

   


10.8* 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated June 8, 2004, between PC Mall, Inc. and Rob Newton   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.54 to the Quarterly   Report on Form 10-Q of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter ended   June 30, 2004 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   August 11, 2004 (the “June 30, 2004 Form 10-Q”))  


  

  

   


10.9* 

  

Amendment   to Employment Agreement, dated March 22, 2005, between PC   Mall, Inc. and Rob Newton (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc.   (File No. 0-25790) filed with the commission on March 25, 2005)  


  

  

   


10.10* 

  

Severance   Agreement between AF Services, LLC and Brandon LaVerne (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q   of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on November 14, 2007 (the   “September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q”))  


  

  

   


10.11* 

  

Form of   Executive Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (full acceleration upon change   in control) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter   ended September 30, 2004 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the   Commission on November 15, 2004 (the “September 30, 2004   Form 10-Q”))  


  

  

   


10.12* 

  

Form of   Executive Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (partial acceleration upon   change in control) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.62 to   the September 30, 2004 Form 10-Q)   
 
88





 



10.13* 

  

Directors’   Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, amended and restated as of May 18, 1999   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly   Report on Form 10-Q of PC Mall, Inc. for the quarter ended   June 30, 1999 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   August 16, 1999)  


  

  

   


10.14* 

  

Form of   Indemnification Agreement between PC Mall, Inc. and each of its   directors and executive officers (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.48 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2002 (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on March 31, 2003)  


  

  

   


10.15* 

  

Form of   Director Restricted Stock Bonus Award Agreement (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q)  


  

  

   


10.16 

  

Master   Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated September 1, 2004, between   PC Mall, Inc. and eCOST.com, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference   to Exhibit 10.56 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   September 8, 2004 (the “September 8, 2004 Form 8-K”))  


  

  

   


10.17 

  

Tax   Allocation and Indemnification Agreement, dated September 1, 2004,   between PC Mall, Inc. and eCOST.com, Inc. (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.57 to the September 8, 2004 Form 8-K)  


  

  

   


10.18 

  

Employee   Benefit Matters Agreement, dated September 1, 2004, between PC   Mall, Inc. and eCOST.com, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.58 to the September 8, 2004 Form 8-K)  


  

  

   


10.19 

  

Lease   Agreement, dated September 1, 2003, between PC Mall, Inc. and   Anderson Tully Company for the premises located at 4715 E. Shelby Drive,   Memphis, TN (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.63 to the   Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC Mall, Inc. for the year ended   December 31, 2004 (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 31, 2005 (the “December 31, 2004 Form 10-K”))  


  

  

   


10.20 

  

Renewal   Letter for lease of property in Memphis, Tennessee, entered into on   October 2, 2006 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1   to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on October 6, 2006)  


  

  

   


10.21 

  

Lease   Agreement, dated June 11, 2003, among PC Mall, Inc., PC Mall   Canada, Inc. and Canaprev, Inc. for the premises located at 1100,   University, 2nd Floor, Montreal (Quebec) Canada (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.64 to the December 31, 2004 Form 10-K)  


  

  

   


10.22 

  

Addendum   to Lease Agreement, dated January 26, 2004, between PC Mall, Inc.,   PC Mall Canada, Inc. and Canaprev, Inc. for premises located at   1100 University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, dated January 26, 2004   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.70 to the   December 31, 2004 Form 10-K)  


  

  

   


10.23 

  

Lease   Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2001, by and between Sarcom   Properties, Inc. and Sarcom Desktop Solutions, Inc., as amended as   of December 1, 2002 and as of March 22, 2004 (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the September 30, 2007   Form 10-Q)  


  

  

   


10.24 

  

Addendum   No. 2, by and between Complexe Rue Universite S.E.C., PC Mall   Canada, Inc. and PC Mall, Inc., dated January 10, 2008   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report   on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the   Commission on January 15, 2008)  


  

  

   


10.25 

  

Asset   Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 7, 2006, by and among a   wholly-owned subsidiary of PC Mall Gov, Inc. GMRI and the shareholders   of GMRI (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current   Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed   with the Commission on September 12, 2006)  


  

  

   


10.26 

  

Joint   Stipulation of Settlement and Release made and entered into by and between   Plaintiff Nicole Atkins, Class Representative and Defendants PC   Mall, Inc. and PC Mall Sales, Inc. (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of   PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) for the period ended   March 31, 2007 filed with the Commission on May 15, 2007)  


  

  

   


10.27 

  

Registration   Rights Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2007, by and among PC   Mall, Inc., Zohar CDO 2003-1, Limited, Zohar II 2005-1, Limited, Charles   E. Sweet, Robert F. Angart & Company, John R. Strauss, Daniel A.   Schneider and Howard Schapiro (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2   to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on September 18, 2007)  


  

  

   


10.28+ 

  

Second   Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of   December 14, 2010, by and among PC Mall, Inc., wholly-owned   subsidiaries of PC Mall, Inc., Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC   (Western) and certain other financial institutions (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 25, 2011)   
 
89





 



10.29 

  

Agreement   for Purchase and Sale of Real Estate and Joint Escrow Instructions by and   between PC Mall, Inc. and Citibank N.A., dated as of January 7,   2011 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Annual   Report on Form 10-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed   with the Commission on March 25, 2011)  


  

  

   


10.30 

  

First   Amendment to Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Real Estate and Joint Escrow   Instructions, dated as of February 7, 2011 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 25, 2011)  


  

  

   


10.31 

  

Second   Amendment to Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Real Estate and Joint Escrow   Instructions, dated as of February 22, 2011 (incorporated herein by reference   to Exhibit 10.32 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 25, 2011)  


  

  

   


10.32 

  

Lease   Agreement, Executed By and Between SARCOM Properties, Inc. and AF   Services, LLC, effective January 1, 2010 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   February 26, 2010)  


  

  

   


10.33* 

  

Summary   of Executive Bonus Plan, adopted August 18, 2010 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of   PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) for the period ended   September 30, 2010 filed with the Commission on November 9, 2010)  


  

  

   


10.34* 

  

Summary   of Executive Bonus Plan, adopted March 14, 2012  


  

  

   


10.35* 

  

Summary   of Executive Salary and Bonus Arrangements  


  

  

   


10.36* 

  

Summary   of Director Compensation Arrangements (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.35 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) for the year ended December 31,   2009 filed with the Commission on March 16, 2010)  


  

  

   


10.37* 

  

Employment   Agreement, by and between PC Mall, Inc. and Joseph B. Hayek, dated   March 17, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to   the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File   No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on March 19, 2008)  


  

  

   


10.38* 

  

Amendment   to Employment Agreement made and entered into as of December 30, 2008,   by and between PC Mall, Inc. and Frank F. Khulusi (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of   PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   March 16, 2009)  


  

  

   


10.39 

  

Renewal   Letter, by and between WNI/Tennessee, L.P. and AF Services, LLC, dated   September 30, 2009 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   October 6, 2009)  


  

  

   


10.40 

  

First   Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement and   Consent, dated as of June 28, 2011, by and among PC Mall, Inc. and all of its domestic subsidiaries, certain   lenders and Well Fargo Capital Finance, LLC (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of PC   Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed with the Commission on   July 1, 2011)  


  

  

   


10.41+ 

  

Second   Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement and   Consent, dated as of November 30, 2011, by and among PC Mall, Inc. and all of its domestic   subsidiaries, certain lenders and Well Fargo Capital Finance, LLC  


  

  

   


10.42* 

  

Employment   Agreement entered into by and between Mark T. McGrath and PC Mall, Inc.   on February 25, 2012  


  

  

   


10.43 

  

Agreement   of Purchase and Sale and Joint Escrow Instructions dated February 10,   2012 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current   Report on Form 8-K of PC Mall, Inc. (File No. 0-25790) filed   with the Commission on February 16, 2012)  


  

  

   


21.1 

  

Subsidiaries   of PC Mall, Inc. as of December 31, 2011  


  

  

   


23.1 

  

Consent   of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  


  

  

   


31.1 

  

Certification   of the Chief Executive Officer of PC Mall, Inc. pursuant to Exchange Act   Rule 13a-14(a)   
 
90





 



31.2 

  

Certification   of the Chief Financial Officer of PC Mall, Inc. pursuant to Exchange Act   Rule 13a-14(a)  


  

  

   


32.1 

  

Certification   of the Chief Executive Officer of PC Mall, Inc. pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  


  

  

   


32.2 

  

Certification   of the Chief Financial Officer of PC Mall, Inc. pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  


  

  

   


101.INS* 

  

XBRL   Instance Document  


  

  

   


101.SCH* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Schema Document  


  

  

   


101.CAL* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document  


  

  

   


101.DEF* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document  


  

  

   


101.LAB* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document  


  

  

   


101.PRE* 

  

XBRL   Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document   
 




* 

Management   contract, or compensatory plan or arrangement.  


+ 

Confidential   portions omitted and filed separately with the U.S. Securities and Exchange   Commission pursuant to a request for   confidential treatment under Rule 24b-2 promulgated under the Securities   Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
 
***
 
91







