
10-K
1
d284802d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
UNITED STATES  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 FORM 10-K   


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 or 
 


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from                  to
                  Commission file number
1-32961  CBIZ, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






 Delaware
 
 22-2769024

 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 6050 Oak Tree Boulevard, South,
Suite 500,
Cleveland, Ohio
 
 44131

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (216) 447-9000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Common Stock, par value $0.01
 
 New York Stock Exchange

(Title of class)
 
(Name of exchange on which registered)
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  ¨        No  x 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes  ¨        No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x        No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12
months.    Yes  x        No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.    x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.   










Large accelerated filer  ¨
 
Accelerated filer  x
 
Non-accelerated filer  ¨
 
Smaller reporting company  ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes  ¨        No   x 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $372.9 million as of June 30, 2011.
 The number of outstanding shares of the registrant’s common stock is 50,099,317 as of February 29, 2012. 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   


Part III
Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement relative to the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchanges
Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the Registrant’s fiscal year. 


Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. 
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011  Table of Contents
  










 
 
 
  
Page
 

 PART I
 

  




 Item 1.
 
 Business
  
 
4
  

 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
  
 
11
  

 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
17
  

 Item 2.
 
 Properties
  
 
17
  

 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
17
  

 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
19
  





 PART II
 

  




 Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  
 
20
  

 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
23
  

 Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
24
  

 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
49
  

 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
50
  

 Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
50
  

 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
50
  

 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
  
 
51
  





 PART III
 

  




 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
52
  

 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
  
 
56
  

 Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
56
  

 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
56
  

 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
58
  





 PART IV
 

  




 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
59
  


 
 Signatures
  
 
62
  

  2 


Table of Contents
Forward-Looking Statements  This Annual Report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“the Exchange Act”). All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including, without limitation, “Business” and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” regarding CBIZ’s financial position, business strategy and plans and objectives for future performance are forward-looking statements. You can identify these
statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by the use of such terms and phrases as “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,”
“expects,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “foreseeable future,” “seeks,” and words or phrases of similar import in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In
particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated services, sales efforts, expenses, and financial results. From time to time, we also may provide oral or written
forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements that we make, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Such forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in “Item
1A. Risk Factors” will be important in determining future results. Should one or more of these risks or assumptions materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated,
estimated or projected. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: CBIZ’s ability to adequately manage its growth; CBIZ’s dependence on the services of its CEO and other key employees; competitive pricing pressures;
general business and economic conditions; changes in governmental regulation and tax laws affecting its operations; reversal or decline in the current trend of outsourcing business services; revenue seasonality or fluctuations in and collectability
of receivables; liability for errors and omissions of the Company’s businesses; regulatory investigations and future regulatory activity (including without limitation inquiries into compensation arrangements within the insurance brokerage
industry); and reliance on information processing systems and availability of software licenses. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Our actual future results may vary materially. We undertake no obligation to publicly
update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in the quarterly, periodic and annual reports we file
with the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially
from expected and historical results. Other factors besides those described here could also adversely affect operating or financial performance.  The following text is qualified in its entirety by reference to the more detailed information and consolidated financial statements (including the notes thereto) appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report to “we”, “our”, “us”, “CBIZ”, or the “Company” shall mean CBIZ, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to CBIZ’s fiscal year which ends on December 31. 
  3 


Table of Contents
PART I  Item 1.    Business.  Overview and
History  CBIZ provides professional business services, products and solutions that help its clients grow and succeed by better managing
their finances and employees. These services are provided to businesses of various sizes, as well as individuals, governmental entities and not-for-profit enterprises throughout the United States and parts of Canada. CBIZ delivers its integrated
services through the following four practice groups:   






 • Financial Services
  
 • Medical Management Professionals (“MMP”)




 • Employee Services
  
 • National Practices
 CBIZ believes that its diverse and integrated service offerings result in advantages for both the client and for CBIZ. By
providing custom solutions that help clients manage their finances and employees, CBIZ enables its clients to focus their resources on their own core business and operational competencies. Additionally, working with one provider for several
solutions enables CBIZ’s clients to utilize their resources more efficiently by eliminating the need to coordinate with multiple service providers. The ability to combine several services and offer them through one trusted provider
distinguishes CBIZ from other service providers.  CBIZ has been operating as a professional services business since 1996, and built its
professional services business through acquiring accounting and financial service firms, benefits and employee services firms, valuation, medical billing and other service firms throughout the United States. CBIZ is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “CBZ”.  Business Strategy 
CBIZ strives to maximize shareholder value and believes this is accomplished through growth in revenue and earnings per share, as well as the strategic
deployment of free cash-flow and capital resources.  Revenue  CBIZ believes revenue growth will be achieved through internal organic growth, cross-serving additional services to its existing clients, and targeted acquisitions. Each of these components is critical to
the long-term growth strategy, and CBIZ expects each component to contribute to long-term revenue growth.   


•
 
 CBIZ believes it can capitalize on organic growth opportunities including a fragmented and generally underserved market. CBIZ offers a higher level of
national resources than traditional local professional service firms, but delivers these services locally with a higher level of personal service than is expected from traditional national firms. CBIZ is also able to leverage technology to create
efficiencies and to link together aligned services such as benefits, payroll, HR, and COBRA administration.   


•
 
 Cross-serving provides CBIZ with the opportunity to deliver multiple services to existing clients, and thus contributes to revenue growth through the
expansion of business to such clients. Cross-serving opportunities are identified by the Company’s employees as they provide services to their existing clients. Being a trusted advisor to its clients provides CBIZ with the opportunity to
identify the clients’ needs, while the diverse and integrated services offered by CBIZ allow the Company to provide solutions to satisfy these needs. 
 


•
 
 CBIZ’s acquisition strategy is to selectively acquire businesses that expand the Company’s market position and strengthen its existing
service offerings. Strategic businesses that CBIZ seeks to acquire generally have strong and energetic leadership, a positive local market reputation, commitment to client service, the potential for cross-serving additional CBIZ services to their
clients, an ability to integrate quickly with existing CBIZ operations and are accretive to earnings. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Earnings Per Share  CBIZ expects to grow earnings per share by achieving operating leverage. CBIZ believes it can achieve operating leverage by improving productivity while growing revenue. Operating leverage opportunities
include managing general and administrative infrastructure costs and other costs that are fixed or may increase at rates slower than revenue growth.  Cash Flows and Capital Resources  CBIZ’s strategy is to utilize capital
resources for strategic initiatives that will optimize shareholder return. The highest priority for the utilization of capital is focused on strategic acquisitions. CBIZ also believes that repurchasing shares of its common stock is a use of cash
that provides shareholder value. Accordingly, CBIZ has historically adopted a repurchase plan annually and continually evaluates share repurchase opportunities. CBIZ may repurchase shares of its common stock when, after assessing capital needed to
fund acquisitions and seasonal working capital needs, capital resources are available and such repurchases are accretive to stockholders. 
Business Services  CBIZ delivers its
integrated services through four operating practice groups. A general description of services provided by practice group is provided in the table below.   










 Financial Services
 
 Employee Services
 
 MMP
 
 National Practices






 • Accounting
• Tax • Financial Advisory
• Valuation
• Litigation Support
• Internal Audit
• Family Office Services
• Corporate Recovery
• Real Estate Advisory
 
 • Employee Benefits
• Property & Casualty
• Retirement Plan Services
• Payroll Services
• Life Insurance
• Human Capital Services
• Compensation Consulting
• Executive Recruiting
• Actuarial Services
• Risk Management
 
 • Coding and Billing
• Accounts Receivable Management
• Full Practice Management Services
 
 • Managed Networking and Hardware Services
• Health Care Consulting
• Mergers & Acquisitions
 Practice Groups  Revenue by practice group for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, is provided in the table below (in thousands): 
 




























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Financial Services
  
$
391,232
  
  
 
53.3
% 
 
$
380,130
  
  
 
52.1
% 
 
$
377,341
  
  
 
51.2
% 

 Employee Services(1)
  
 
171,205
  
  
 
23.4
% 
 
 
174,097
  
  
 
23.8
% 
 
 
170,846
  
  
 
23.2
% 

 MMP
  
 
141,046
  
  
 
19.2
% 
 
 
148,425
  
  
 
20.3
% 
 
 
160,632
  
  
 
21.8
% 

 National Practices
  
 
30,322
  
  
 
4.1
% 
 
 
27,749
  
  
 
3.8
% 
 
 
27,968
  
  
 
3.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total CBIZ
  
$
733,805
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
730,401
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
736,787
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Effective January 1, 2011, CBIZ sold its individual wealth management business. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, revenue from the individual
wealth management business that was reported in the Employee Services practice group was $6.6 million and $7.4 million, respectively. 
  5 


Table of Contents
A discussion of CBIZ’s practice groups and certain external relationships and regulatory factors that
currently impact those practice groups are provided below. See Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of CBIZ’s practice groups.  Financial Services  The Financial Services practice group is divided into a Financial
Services division, which represents the various accounting units spread geographically throughout the United States that provide their services regionally, and a National Services division consisting of those units that provide their specialty
services nationwide. Both the Financial Services and National Services divisions report either directly to the Chief Operating Officer of Financial Services or to the President of Financial Services. The President of Financial Services reports to
CBIZ’s President and Chief Operating Officer.  Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and state accountancy laws and
regulations preclude CBIZ from rendering audit and attest services (other than internal audit services). As such, CBIZ and its subsidiaries maintain joint-referral relationships and administrative service agreements (“ASAs”) with
independent licensed Certified Public Accounting (“CPA”) firms under which audit and attest services may be provided to CBIZ’s clients by such CPA firms. These firms are owned by licensed CPAs, a vast majority of whom are also
employed by CBIZ subsidiaries. Under these ASAs, CBIZ provides a range of services to the CPA firms, including (but not limited to): administrative functions such as office management, bookkeeping, and accounting; preparing marketing and promotion
materials; providing office space, computer equipment, and systems support; and leasing administrative and professional staff. Services are performed in exchange for a fee. Fees earned by CBIZ under the ASAs are recorded as revenue in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and totaled approximately $109.1 million, $110.1 million, and $108.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, a majority of which is related to services
rendered to privately-held clients. In the event that accounts receivable and unbilled work in process become uncollectible by the CPA firms, the service fee due to CBIZ is typically reduced on a proportional basis. The ASAs have terms ranging up to
eighteen years, are renewable upon agreement by both parties, and have certain rights of extension and termination.  With respect to CPA firm
clients that are required to file audited financial statements with the SEC, the SEC staff views CBIZ and the CPA firms with which CBIZ has contractual relationships as a single entity in applying independence rules established by the accountancy
regulators and the SEC. Accordingly, CBIZ does not hold any financial interest in an SEC-reporting attest client of an associated CPA firm, enter into any business relationship with an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an
audit could not maintain, or sell any non-audit services to an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not maintain, under the auditor independence limitations set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other
professional accountancy independence standards. Applicable professional standards generally permit CBIZ to provide additional services to privately-held companies in addition to those services which may be provided to SEC-reporting attest clients
of an associated CPA firm. CBIZ and the CPA firms with which CBIZ is associated have implemented policies and procedures designed to enable the Company to maintain independence and freedom from conflicts of interest in accordance with applicable
standards. Given the pre-existing limits set by CBIZ on its relationships with SEC-reporting attest clients of associated CPA firms, and the limited number and size of such clients, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act independence limitations do not, and are not
expected to, materially affect CBIZ revenues.  The CPA firms with which CBIZ maintains ASAs may operate as limited liability companies,
limited liability partnerships or professional corporations. The firms are separate legal entities with separate governing bodies and officers. Neither the existence of the ASAs nor the providing of services there under is intended to constitute
control of the CPA firms by CBIZ. CBIZ and the CPA firms maintain their own respective liability and risk of loss in connection with performance of their respective services. Attest services are not permitted to be performed by any individual or
entity that is not licensed to do so. CBIZ is not permitted to perform audits, reviews, compilations, or other attest services, does not contract to perform them and does not provide the 
  6 


Table of Contents

associated attest reports. Given this legal prohibition and course of conduct, CBIZ does not believe it is likely that it would bear the risk of litigation losses related to attest services
provided by the CPA firms.  At December 31, 2011, CBIZ maintained ASAs with four CPA firms. Most of the members and/or stockholders of
the CPA firms are also CBIZ employees, and CBIZ renders services to the CPA firms as an independent contractor. CBIZ’s primary ASA is with Mayer Hoffman McCann, P.C. (“MHM P.C.”), an independent national CPA firm headquartered in
Kansas City, Kansas. MHM P.C. has 291 stockholders, a vast majority of whom are also employees of CBIZ. MHM maintains a nine member Board of Directors. There are no board members of MHM P.C. who hold senior officer positions at CBIZ. CBIZ’s
association with MHM P.C. offers clients access to the multi-state resources and expertise of a national CPA firm.  Although the ASAs do not
constitute control, CBIZ is one of the beneficiaries of the agreements and may bear certain economic risks. As such, the CPA firms with which CBIZ maintains ASAs qualify as variable interest entities. See Note 1 of the accompanying consolidated
financial statements for further discussion.  Employee Services  CBIZ’s Employee Services group operates under a divisional President who oversees the practice group, along with a senior management team that supports the practice group leader along functional,
product, and unit management lines. The Employee Services President reports to CBIZ’s Chief Executive Officer. The business units that comprise CBIZ’s Employee Services group are organized between Retail and National Services. The Retail
offices generally provide services locally within their geographic area. The National group is comprised of several specialty operations that provide unique services on a national scale.  CBIZ’s Employee Services group maintains relationships with many different insurance carriers. Some of these carriers have compensation arrangements with CBIZ whereby some portion of payments due may
be contingent upon meeting certain performance goals, or upon CBIZ providing client services that would otherwise be provided by the carriers. These compensation arrangements are provided to CBIZ as a result of its performance and expertise, and may
result in enhancing CBIZ’s ability to access certain insurance markets and services on behalf of CBIZ clients. The aggregate compensation related to these arrangements received during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were
less than 2% of consolidated CBIZ revenue for the respective periods.  Medical Management Professionals 
MMP provides billing and coding services, as well as full-practice management services for hospital-based physicians primarily in the practice of
radiology, emergency medicine, anesthesiology and pathology. MMP has a President who reports to CBIZ’s Chief Executive Officer. MMP’s President is supported by an executive management team which oversees MMP’s operating
units along functional and product lines. Four of the five MMP operating units are organized into geographic regions representing the East, Great Lakes, South and West regions of the United States and the fifth unit is dedicated to Emergency
Medicine billing. Each unit is managed by a two person management team focused on operations and finance. Changes in some managed care plans
and federal Medicare and Medicaid physician and practice expense reimbursement rules and rates have, and may continue to, adversely affect revenue in the existing physician and medical billing and collections business. In addition, certain
managed care payors may impose precertification and other management programs which could limit or control the use of, and reimbursement for, imaging and diagnostic services. Certain managed care payors may institute “pay for performance”
and “quality initiative” programs that could limit or control physician, office and facility, and practice services and procedures, as well as reimbursement costs, and replace volume-based payment methods. Since the Company’s
physician and medical billing and collections business is typically paid a portion of the revenue collected on behalf of the Company’s clients, any reduction in the volume of services or reimbursement rates for such services or expenses

  7 


Table of Contents

for which the Company’s clients are eligible to be paid may adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenue and maintain margins. CBIZ will make its best efforts to take
appropriate actions to maintain margins in this business, however there is no assurance that MMP will be able to maintain margins at historic levels.  National Practices  The National Practices group offers technology, health care consulting,
and merger and acquisition services. The units within the National Practices group each have a Business Unit President. These Business Unit Presidents report to a Senior Vice President and CBIZ’s President and Chief Operating Officer, with one
unit reporting to CBIZ’s Chief Executive Officer.  Sales and Marketing  CBIZ’s branding goals are focused on providing CBIZ with a consistent image while at the same time providing a customizable set of marketing tools for each practice and market to utilize within each
of the Company’s distinct geographic and industry markets. Three key strategies are employed to accomplish these goals: thought leadership, market segmentation, and sales/sales management process development. 
 


 
•
 
 Thought leadership:    CBIZ marketing efforts continue to capitalize on the extensive knowledge and expertise of CBIZ
associates. This has been accomplished through media visibility, webinars, and the creation of a wide variety of white papers, newsletters, books, and other information offerings. 
 


 
•
 
 Market segmentation:    The majority of CBIZ marketing resources are devoted to the highly measurable and high return on
investment tactics that specifically target those industries and areas where CBIZ has particularly deep experience. These efforts typically involve local, regional or national trade show and event sponsorships, targeted direct mail, email, and
telemarketing campaigns, and practice and industry specific micro-sites, newsletters, etc.   


 
•
 
 Sales/sales management process development:    CBIZ continues to enhance an accountable business development culture with
several initiatives including enhanced management visibility, analytics and forecasting through Salesforce.com and the implementation of performance management scorecards and business development pipeline reports. Together, these initiatives have
helped create a more effective, efficient and successful sales management process throughout the Company.  Beginning in
2010, CBIZ’s focus has been on marketing strategies that specifically support each of the Company’s major practice areas: Financial Services, Employee Services and MMP. In each of these segments, emphasis has been put on marketing
technology that has the highest and most measurable return on investment, including enhanced targeted email campaigns, webinars, and an improved web presence.  In 2012, CBIZ launched an aggressive initiative to build relationships and reputation through social media. Beginning with comprehensive training and support for LinkedIn, CBIZ’s social media efforts
have expanded to include programs on Facebook, Twitter, Google+, YouTube and social sharing sites such as Slideshare and Scrib’d. 
Customers  CBIZ provides professional
business services to over 90,000 clients, including over 50,000 business clients. By providing various professional services and administrative functions, CBIZ enables its clients to focus their resources on their own operational competencies.
Reducing administrative functions allows clients to enhance productivity, reduce costs and improve service quality and efficiency by focusing on their core business. Depending on a client’s size and capabilities, it may choose to utilize one,
some or many of the diverse and integrated services offered by CBIZ.  CBIZ’s clients come from a large variety of industries and markets,
with the Company targeting mid-sized companies that have between 100 and 2,000 employees and annual revenues between $5 million and $200 
  8 


Table of Contents

million. CBIZ’s largest client, Edward Jones, contributed less than 3% of CBIZ’s consolidated revenue in 2011, and is included in the National Practices operating practice group.
Management believes that its client diversity helps insulate CBIZ from a downturn in a particular industry or geographic market. Nevertheless, economic conditions among select clients and groups of clients may have an impact on the demand for
services provided by CBIZ. See Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding revenue attributable to the geographic areas where CBIZ operates.  Competition  The professional business services industry is highly fragmented and
competitive, with a majority of industry participants, such as accounting, employee benefits, payroll providers, medical management or professional service organizations, offering only a limited number of services. Competition is based primarily on
client relationships, quality of professional advice, range and quality of services or product offerings, customer service, timeliness, geographic proximity, and competitive rates. CBIZ competes with a number of multi-location regional or national
professional services firms and a large number of relatively small independent firms in local markets. CBIZ’s competitors in the professional business services industry include, but are not limited to, independent consulting services companies,
independent accounting and tax firms, payroll service providers, medical billing and coding companies, independent insurance brokers and divisions of diversified services companies.  Acquisitions and Divestitures  CBIZ seeks to strengthen its operations and customer service
capabilities by selectively acquiring businesses that expand its market position and strengthen its existing service offerings. During the year ended December 31, 2011, CBIZ acquired four businesses: Thompson Dunavant PLC, Gresham Smith LLC,
Multiple Benefit Services, Inc. (“MBS”), and Atlantic MDR, LLC (d/b/a Advantage Benefit Planning) (“ABP”).  Thompson
Dunavant PLC is an accounting and financial services firm located in Memphis, Tennessee and provides tax and financial consulting services to a number of clients ranging from small closely-held companies to large multi-national businesses. Gresham
Smith LLC is an accounting and tax firm based in St. Louis, Missouri and provides accounting and tax services to individuals and small businesses. Annual revenues for Thompson Dunavant PLC and Gresham Smith LLC are estimated to be approximately
$15.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively. Both Thompson Dunavant PLC and Gresham Smith LLC are reported in the Financial Services practice group.  MBS is an employee benefits consulting firm located in Atlanta, Georgia and provides employee benefit consulting and support services to both small and large companies. ABP is located in Pleasantville,
New Jersey and provides employee benefit and retirement plan consulting and services to a variety of clients. Annual revenues for MBS and ABP are estimated to be approximately $3.5 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The acquisitions of MBS and
ABP are reported in the Employee Services practice group.  In addition to the business acquisitions discussed above, CBIZ acquired a client
list in the actuarial and retirement plan consulting business. Annual revenue is estimated to be approximately $1.2 million and is being reported in the Employee Services practice group.  On January 1, 2011, CBIZ sold its individual wealth management business and recorded a $2.3 million gain which is reflected in “Gain on sale of operations, net” on the consolidated
statement of operations. Revenues associated with this business approximated $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and were reported in the Employee Services practice group. Based on the provisions of the sales agreement, CBIZ
expects to record an additional gain of approximately $2.5 million during the first quarter of 2012 which is contingent on the value of the client list retained by the purchaser as of January 1, 2012. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Regulation  CBIZ’s operations are subject to regulations by federal, state, local and professional governing bodies. Accordingly, CBIZ’s business services may be impacted by legislative changes by these
bodies, particularly with respect to provisions relating to payroll, benefits administration and insurance services, pension plan administration, medical management billing and collections, and tax and accounting. CBIZ remains abreast of regulatory
changes affecting its business, as these changes often affect clients’ activities with respect to employment, taxation, benefits, and accounting. For instance, changes in income, estate, or property tax laws may require additional consultation
with clients subject to these changes to ensure their activities comply with revised regulations.  CBIZ itself is subject to industry
regulation and changes, including changes in laws, regulations, and codes of ethics governing its accounting, insurance, valuation, medical management, registered investment advisory and broker-dealer operations, as well as in other industries, the
interpretation of which may restrict CBIZ’s operations.  CBIZ is subject to certain privacy and information security laws and
regulations, including, but not limited to those under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, The Financial Modernization Act of 1999 (the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical
Health Act, and other provisions of federal and state law which may restrict CBIZ’s operations and give rise to expenses related to compliance.  As a public company, CBIZ is subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to reform the oversight of public company auditing, improve the quality and transparency of financial reporting by
those companies and strengthen the independence of auditors.  Liability Insurance 
CBIZ carries insurance policies including those for commercial general liability, automobile liability, property, crime, professional liability,
directors’ and officers’ liability, fiduciary liability, employment practices liability and workers’ compensation subject to prescribed state mandates. Excess liability coverage is carried over the underlying limits provided by the
commercial general liability, directors’ and officers’ liability, professional liability and automobile liability policies. 
Employees  At December 31, 2011,
CBIZ employed approximately 5,100 employees. CBIZ believes that it has a good relationship with its employees. A large number of the Company’s employees hold professional licenses or degrees. As a professional services company that
differentiates itself from competitors through the quality and diversity of its service offerings, CBIZ believes that its employees are its most important asset. Accordingly, CBIZ strives to remain competitive as an employer while increasing the
capabilities and performance of its employees.  Seasonality  A disproportionately large amount of CBIZ’s revenue occurs in the first half of the year. This is due primarily to accounting and tax services provided by the Company’s Financial Services
practice group, which is subject to seasonality related to heavy volume in the first four months of the year. CBIZ’s Financial Services group generated more than 40% of its revenue in the first four months of each of the past five years. In
addition, more than 50% of the Company’s annual earnings per share have been earned during the first quarter of each of the past five years. Like most professional service companies, most of CBIZ’s operating costs are relatively fixed in
the short term, which generally results in higher operating margins in the first half of the year. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Available Information  CBIZ’s principal executive office is located at 6050 Oak Tree Boulevard, South, Suite 500, Cleveland, Ohio 44131, and the Company’s telephone number is (216) 447-9000. CBIZ’s website
is located at http://www.cbiz.com. CBIZ makes available, free of charge on its website, through the investor information page, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those
reports as soon as reasonably practicable after CBIZ files (or furnishes) such reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may read and copy materials the Company files (or furnishes) with the SEC at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, and may obtain information on the operations of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Website that
contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information about CBIZ at http://www.sec.gov. CBIZ’s corporate code of conduct and ethics and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and
Governance Committee of the Board of Directors are available on the investor information page of CBIZ’s website, referenced above, and in print to any shareholder who requests them.  Item 1A.    Risk Factors.  The following
factors may affect our actual operating and financial results and could cause results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the following information. 
We may be more sensitive to revenue fluctuations than other companies, which could result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock.
 A substantial majority of our operating expenses such as personnel and related costs and occupancy costs, are relatively fixed in the
short term. As a result, we may not be able to quickly reduce costs in response to any decrease in revenue. This factor could cause our quarterly results to be lower than expectations of securities analysts and stockholders, which could result in a
decline in the price of our common stock.  Payments on accounts receivable may be slower than expected, or amounts due on receivables or
notes may not be fully collectible.  Professional services firms often experience higher average accounts receivable days outstanding
compared to many other industries, which may be magnified if the general economy worsens. If our collections become slower, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. We monitor the aging of receivables regularly and make assessments of the ability of
customers to pay amounts due. We provide for potential bad debts each month and recognize additional reserves against bad debts as we deem it appropriate. Notwithstanding these measures, our customers may face unexpected circumstances that adversely
impact their ability to pay their trade receivables or note obligations to us and we may face unexpected losses as a result.  We are
dependent on the services of our executive officers and other key employees, the loss of any of whom may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, such as our business unit
presidents. In the course of business operations, employees may resign and seek employment elsewhere. Certain principal employees, however, are bound in writing to non-compete agreements barring competitive employment, client solicitation, and
solicitation of employees for a period of between two and ten years following his or her resignation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the services of our key personnel. If we cannot retain the services of key personnel, there
could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we generally have employment agreements and non-competition agreements with key personnel, courts are at times reluctant to enforce such
non-competition agreements. In addition, many of our executive officers and other key personnel are either participants in our stock option plan or holders of a significant amount of our common stock. We

  11 


Table of Contents

believe that these interests provide additional incentives for these key employees to remain with us. In order to support our growth, we intend to continue to effectively recruit, hire, train and
retain additional qualified management personnel. Our inability to attract and retain necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and conflict of interest rules may limit our ability to provide services to clients of the attest
firms with which we have contractual relationships and the ability of such attest firms to provide attestation services to our clients. 
Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and state accountancy laws and regulations preclude CBIZ from rendering audit and attest services (other
than internal audit services). As such, CBIZ and its subsidiaries maintain joint-referral relationships and ASAs with independent licensed CPA firms under which audit and attest services may be provided to CBIZ’s clients by such CPA firms.
These firms are owned by licensed CPAs, a vast majority of whom are employed by CBIZ subsidiaries.  Under these ASAs, CBIZ provides a range of
services to the CPA firms, including: administrative functions such as office management, bookkeeping, and accounting; preparing marketing and promotion materials; providing office space, computer equipment, and systems support; and leasing
administrative and professional staff. Services are performed in exchange for a fee. Fees earned by CBIZ under the ASAs are recorded as revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In the event that accounts receivable and
unbilled work in process become uncollectible by the CPA firms, the service fee due to CBIZ is typically reduced on a proportional basis. 
With respect to CPA firm clients that are required to file audited financial statements with the SEC, the SEC staff views CBIZ and the CPA firms with
which we have contractual relationships as a single entity in applying independence rules established by the accountancy regulators and the SEC. Accordingly, we do not hold any financial interest in, nor do we enter into any business relationship
with, an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not maintain; further, we do not sell any non-audit services to an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not maintain, under the
auditor independence limitations set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other professional accountancy independence standards. Applicable professional standards generally permit CBIZ to provide additional services to privately-held companies,
in addition to those services which may be provided to SEC-reporting attest clients of an associated CPA firm. CBIZ and the CPA firms with which we are associated have implemented policies and procedures designed to enable us to maintain
independence and freedom from conflicts of interest in accordance with applicable standards. Given the pre-existing limits set by CBIZ on its relationships with SEC-reporting attest clients of associated CPA firms, and the limited number and size of
such clients, the imposition of Sarbanes-Oxley Act independence limitations did not and is not expected to materially affect CBIZ revenues. 
There can be no assurance that following the policies and procedures implemented by us and the attest firms will enable us and the attest firms to avoid
circumstances that would cause us and them to lack independence from an SEC-reporting attest client; nor can there be any assurance that state, U.S. Government Accountability Office or U.S. Department Of Labor accountancy authorities will not impose
additional restrictions on the profession. To the extent that licensed CPA firms for whom we provide administrative and other services are affected, we may experience a decline in fee revenue from these businesses as well. To date, revenues derived
from providing services in connection with attestation engagements of the attest firms performed for SEC-reporting clients have not been material.  Our goodwill and intangible assets could become impaired, which could lead to material non-cash charges against earnings.  We assess potential impairment on our goodwill and intangible asset balances, including client lists, on an annual basis, or more frequently if there is any indication that the asset may be impaired. Any
impairment of goodwill or 
  12 


Table of Contents

intangible assets resulting from this periodic assessment would result in a non-cash charge against current earnings, which could lead to a material impact on our results of operations,
statements of financial position, and earnings per share. Any decline in future revenues, cash flows or growth rates as a result of further adverse changes in the economic environment or an adverse change resulting from new governmental regulations,
could lead to an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets.  Certain liabilities resulting from acquisitions are estimated and could
lead to a material non-cash impact on earnings.  Through its acquisition activities, CBIZ records liabilities for estimated future
contingent earnout payments. These liabilities are reviewed quarterly and changes in assumptions used to determine the amount of the liability could lead to a non-cash adjustment that may have a material impact, favorable or unfavorable, on the
consolidated statements of operations.  Governmental regulations and interpretations are subject to changes which could have a material
adverse effect on revenue.  Laws and regulations often result in changes in the amount or the type of business services required by
businesses and individuals. We cannot be sure that future laws and regulations will provide the same or similar opportunities for us to provide business consulting and management services to businesses and individuals. State insurance regulators
have conducted inquiries to clarify the nature of compensation arrangements within the insurance brokerage industry. Future regulatory action may limit or eliminate our ability to enhance revenue through all current compensation arrangements, and
may result in a diminution of future insurance brokerage revenue from these sources. Accordingly, CBIZ’s ability to continue to operate in some states may depend on our flexibility to modify our operational structure in response to these
changes in regulations.  Changes in the United States healthcare environment, including new health care legislation, may adversely
affect the revenue and margins in our medical management and healthcare benefit businesses.  Our medical management business is
typically paid a portion of the revenue collected on behalf of our clients who are hospital-based physician practices primarily in the fields of radiology, emergency medicine, anesthesiology and pathology. Changes in the healthcare environment,
including new health care legislation, that affect the volume of procedures performed by our clients, or that affect the reimbursement rates for procedures performed by our clients, will impact our revenue and could adversely impact margins in this
business. Revenue and margins in this business could also be adversely impacted if our clients lose their hospital contracts as a result of hospital consolidations or other reasons.  Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements are subject to regulation and periodic legislated changes in eligibility and reimbursement rates. In addition, certain managed care payors may change reimbursement
rates, or may impose precertification and other management programs which could limit the use of, and reimbursement for, imaging and diagnostic services. Certain managed care payors may institute “pay for performance” and “quality
initiative” programs that could limit or control physician, office and facility, and practice services and procedures, as well as reimbursement costs, and replace volume-based payment methods. Any legislated changes in the U.S. national health
care system, including the recently enacted health care legislation, or changes by managed care payors, could impact revenue and margins in this business and depending upon the nature of the changes, could have an adverse impact on this business.
 Our employee benefits business, specifically our group health consulting and brokerage businesses, receives commissions for brokering
employer-sponsored healthcare policies with insurance carriers on behalf of the client. In many cases, these commissions consist of a ratable portion of the insurance premiums on those policies, based upon a sliding scale pertaining to the dollar
volume of premiums and/or the number of participants in the plan. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Changes in the healthcare environment, including but not limited to any legislated changes in the U.S.
national health care system, that affect the methods by which insurance carriers remunerate brokers, could adversely impact our revenues and margins in this business. Specifically, legislation or other changes could afford our clients and their
employees the ability to seek insurance coverage through other means, including but not limited to direct access with insurance carriers or other similar avenues, which could eliminate or adversely alter the remuneration brokers receive from
insurance carriers for their services.  Higher rates of unemployment in the U.S. could result in a general reduction in the number of
individuals with employer-sponsored health care coverage. A reduction in the number of individuals with employer-provided health care coverage could result in a reduction in the volume of elective medical procedures performed by the hospital-based
physician practices served by our medical management business, which could have an adverse impact on revenues and margins in this business. Also, higher rates of unemployment in the U.S. could result in a general reduction in the number of
individuals with employer-sponsored health care coverage. This decline in employee participation in healthcare insurance plans at our clients could result in a reduction in the commissions we receive from insurance carriers for our brokerage
services, which could have an adverse impact on revenues and margins in this business.  We are subject to risks relating to processing
customer transactions for our payroll, medical practice management, and other transaction processing businesses.  The high volume of
client funds and data processed by us, or by our out-sourced resources abroad, in our transaction related businesses entails risks for which we may be held liable if the accuracy or timeliness of the transactions processed is not correct. In
addition, related to our payroll and employee benefits businesses, we store personal information about some of our clients and their employees for which we may be liable under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or other
governmental regulations if the security of this information is breached. We could incur significant legal expense to defend any claims against us, even those claims without merit. While we carry insurance against these potential liabilities, we
cannot be certain that circumstances surrounding such an error or breach of security would be entirely reimbursed through insurance coverage. We believe we have controls and procedures in place to address our fiduciary responsibility and mitigate
these risks. However, if we are not successful in managing these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.  We are subject to risk as it relates to software that we license from third parties. 
We license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our systems and our business. The licenses are terminable if we breach our
obligations under the license agreements. If any of these relationships were terminated or if any of these parties were to cease doing business or cease to support the applications we currently utilize, we may be forced to spend significant time and
money to replace the licensed software. However, we cannot assure you that the necessary replacements will be available on reasonable terms, if at all.  We could be held liable for errors and omissions.  All of our business services
entail an inherent risk of malpractice and other similar claims resulting from errors and omissions. Therefore, we maintain errors and omissions insurance coverage. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate, we cannot be certain
that actual future claims or related legal expenses would not exceed the coverage amounts. In addition, we cannot be certain that the different insurance carriers which provide errors and omissions coverage for different lines of our business will
not dispute their obligation to cover a particular claim. If we have a large claim, or a large number of claims, on our insurance, the rates for such insurance may increase, and amounts expended in defense or settlement of these claims prior to
exhaustion of deductible or self-retention levels may become significant, but contractual arrangements with clients may constrain our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees. Insurance rate increases, disputes by carriers over
coverage questions, payments by us within deductible or self-retention limits, as well as any underlying 
  14 


Table of Contents

claims or settlement of such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The future issuance of additional shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock.  Future sales or issuances of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and dilute the percentage ownership held by our
stockholders. We have authorized 250 million shares, and have approximately 50.1 million shares outstanding at February 29, 2012. A substantial number of these shares have been issued in connection with acquisitions. As part of many
acquisition transactions, shares are contractually restricted from sale for periods up to two years, and as of February 29, 2012, approximately 0.7 million shares of common stock were under lock-up contractual restrictions that expire by
February 2013. We cannot be sure when sales by holders of our stock will occur, how many shares will be sold or the effect that sales may have on the market price of our common stock.  In 2006, the Company issued $100.0 million of 3.125% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026 (the “2006 Notes”). During 2010 and 2011, $99.3 million of the 2006 Notes were retired by
CBIZ, leaving $0.7 million outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Although the Company cannot at this time determine the number of shares of common stock it will issue upon conversion of the 2006 Notes, if any, the number of shares of common
stock will be calculated as defined in the indenture agreements with U.S. Bank National Association as trustee. In addition, in September 2010, CBIZ issued $130.0 million of 4.875% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (the “2010
Notes”) pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company cannot at this time determine the number of shares of common stock it will issue upon conversion of these notes, although the number of shares of common
stock it will issue, if any, will be calculated as defined in the indenture agreements with U.S. Bank National Association as trustee. 
Our principal stockholders may have substantial control over our operations.  At December 31, 2011, the stockholders identified below beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) the following aggregate amounts and percentages of our common stock:
  












 
  
Numberof Shares(in 
millions)
 
  
% of CBIZ’sOutstandingCommonStock
 

 Westbury (Bermuda) Ltd
  
 
7.7
  
  
 
15.4
% 

 FMR LLC
  
 
6.2
  
  
 
12.5
% 

 Sarbit Advisory Service, Inc
  
 
3.5
  
  
 
6.9
% 

 Lombardia Capital Partners LLC
  
 
2.7
  
  
 
5.4
% 

 P2 Capital Partners LLC
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
4.8
% 

 Cardinal Capital Management LLC
  
 
2.3
  
  
 
4.7
% 

 BlackRock Fund Advisors
  
 
2.3
  
  
 
4.5
% 

 Vanguard Group Inc
  
 
2.2
  
  
 
4.3
% 

 Investment Counselors of Maryland LLC
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
4.0
% 

 Dimensional Fund Advisors, Inc
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
3.9
% 

 CBIZ Executive Officers and Directors
  
 
5.1
  
  
 
10.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 The foregoing as a group
  
 
38.4
  
  
 
76.6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Because of their stock ownership, these stockholders may exert substantial influence or actions that require the consent
of a majority of our outstanding shares, including the election of directors. CBIZ’s share repurchase activities may result in increased ownership percentages of these individuals and therefore increase the influence they may exert, if they do
not participate in these share repurchase transactions. 
  15 


Table of Contents
We require a significant amount of cash for interest payments on our debt and to expand our business
as planned.  At December 31, 2011, our debt consisted of $145.0 million in principal amount outstanding under our credit facility
and $130.8 million principal amount outstanding under our convertible notes. Our debt requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to use for
acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. Our ability to make interest payments on our debt, and to fund acquisitions, will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. Insufficient cash flow could place us at
risk of default under our debt agreements or could prevent us from expanding our business as planned. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our
control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our other liquidity needs. 
Terms of our credit facility may adversely affect our ability to run our business and/or reduce shareholder returns. 
The terms of our credit facility, as well as the guarantees of our subsidiaries, could impair our ability to operate our business effectively and may
limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. For example, our credit facility may:   


•
 
 restrict our ability to repurchase or redeem our capital stock or debt, or merge or consolidate with another entity;
 


•
 
 limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to obtain other financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions,
investments and general corporate purposes;   


•
 
 limit our ability to dispose of our assets, create liens on our assets, to extend credit or to issue dividends to our stockholders; and
  


•
 
 make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.
 Our failure to satisfy covenants in our debt instruments will cause a default under those instruments.
 Our debt instruments include a number of covenants relating to financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants
may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under these instruments. An event of default would permit our lenders and
other debt holders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our debt. 
We are reliant on information processing systems and any failure of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.  Our ability to provide business services depends on our capacity to store, retrieve, process and
manage significant databases, and expand and upgrade periodically our information processing capabilities. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, breakdown or malfunctioning of computer equipment
and software systems, telecommunications failure, or damage caused by fire, tornadoes, lightning, electrical power outage, or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Although we have disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, we cannot be sure that insurance or these services will continue to be available at reasonable prices, cover all our losses or compensate us
for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide business services. 
  16 


Table of Contents
We may not be able to acquire and finance additional businesses which may limit our ability to pursue
our business strategy.  CBIZ acquired four businesses and one client list during 2011. Targeted acquisitions are part of our growth
strategy and it is our intention to selectively acquire businesses or client lists that are complementary to existing service offerings in our target markets. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue identifying appropriate
acquisition candidates and acquire them on satisfactory terms and we cannot be assured that such acquisitions, even if completed, will perform as expected or will contribute significant synergies, revenues or profits. In addition, we may also face
increased competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to complete transactions on terms that are favorable to us. As discussed above, there are certain provisions under our credit facility that may limit our ability to
acquire additional businesses. In the event that we are not in compliance with certain covenants as specified in our credit facility, we could be restricted from making acquisitions, restricted from borrowing funds from our credit facility for other
uses, or required to pay down the outstanding balance on the line of credit. However, management believes that funds available under the credit facility, along with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs,
including planned acquisition activity in the foreseeable future. To the extent we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of our growth strategy may not be realized. 
The business services industry is competitive and fragmented. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and
results of operations may be negatively impacted.  We face competition from a number of sources in both the business services industry
and from specialty insurance agencies. Competition in both industries has led to consolidation. Many of our competitors are large companies that may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. In addition to these large
companies and specialty insurance agencies, we face competition in the business services industry from in-house employee services departments, local business services companies and independent consultants, as well as from new entrants into our
markets. We cannot assure you that, as our industry continues to evolve, additional competitors will not enter the industry or that our clients will not choose to conduct more of their business services internally or through alternative business
services providers. Although we intend to monitor industry trends and respond accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and successfully respond to such trends in a timely manner. We cannot be certain that we will be able
to compete successfully against current and future competitors, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.  None.  Item 2.    Properties.
 CBIZ’s corporate headquarters is located at 6050 Oak Tree Boulevard, South, Suite 500, Cleveland, Ohio 44131, in leased premises.
CBIZ and its subsidiaries lease more than 130 offices in 37 states, and one in Toronto, Canada. Some of CBIZ’s properties are subject to liens securing payment of indebtedness of CBIZ and its subsidiaries. CBIZ believes that its current
facilities are sufficient for its current needs.  Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.
 In May, June, July, August and September of 2010, CBIZ, Inc. and its subsidiary, CBIZ MHM, LLC (fka CBIZ Accounting, Tax &
Advisory Services, LLC) (“the CBIZ Parties”), were named as defendants in lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona (Robert Facciola, et al v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.) and in the Superior Court
for Maricopa County Arizona (Victims Recovery, LLC v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.; Roger Ashkenazi, et al v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.; Mary Marsh, et al v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.; and ML Liquidating Trust v. Mayer Hoffman McCann PC, et
al.), respectively. The Maricopa County cases 
  17 


Table of Contents

were removed to the United States District Court or Bankruptcy Court and all, have since been remanded to the Superior Court for Maricopa County. Additionally, in November 2009, CBIZ MHM, LLC was
named as a defendant in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona (Jeffery C. Stone v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.). The Stone case has been voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiff in that matter. 
These matters arise out of the bankruptcy proceedings related to Mortgages Ltd., a mortgage lender to developers in the Phoenix, Arizona area. Various
other professional firms not related to the Company are also defendants in these lawsuits. The motion phase of these proceedings has commenced. 
The plaintiffs, except for those in the Stone and ML Liquidating Trust cases, are all alleged to have directly or indirectly invested in real estate
mortgages through Mortgages Ltd. The Victims Recovery, Ashkenazi and Marsh plaintiffs seek monetary damages equivalent to the amounts of their investments. The plaintiff in the ML Liquidating Trust matter asserts errors and omissions and breach of
contract claims, and is seeking monetary damages. The plaintiffs in these suits also seek pre- and post-judgment interest, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees.  Mortgages Ltd. had been audited by Mayer Hoffman McCann PC (“Mayer Hoffman”), a CPA firm which has an administrative services agreement with CBIZ. The claims against the CBIZ Parties seek to
impose auditor-type liabilities upon the Company for audits it did not conduct. Specific claims include securities fraud, common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, Arizona Investment Management Act violations, control-person liability, aiding
and abetting and conspiracy. CBIZ is not a CPA firm, does not provide audits, and did not audit any of the entities at issue in these lawsuits. 
In June 2011 the Facciola court, in which the plaintiffs were seeking to certify a class of all Mortgages Ltd. investors, granted the motions to dismiss
filed by the CBIZ Parties and Mayer Hoffman. After that dismissal order, the plaintiffs’ moved the court to amend their complaint in an attempt to state a claim against the CBIZ Parties and Mayer Hoffman. In November 2011, the Facciola court
denied the plaintiffs’ request to amend the complaint as to the CBIZ Parties and Mayer Hoffman. The Facciola case is now proceeding only against the remaining defendants.  The CBIZ Parties deny all allegations of wrongdoing made against them in these actions and are vigorously defending the proceedings. The Company has been advised by Mayer Hoffman that it denies all
allegations of wrongdoing made against it and that it intends to continue vigorously defending the matters. Although the proceedings are subject to uncertainties inherent in the litigation process and the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is
not presently determinable, management believes that the allegations are without merit and that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows of the Company.  In January 2012 the CBIZ Parties were added as defendants to a lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of California for
Orange County, (Signature Financial Group, Inc., et al, v. Mayer Hoffman McCann, P.C., et al). This lawsuit arises out a review of the financial statements of Medical Capital Holdings, Inc. (“Medical Capital”) by Mayer Hoffman. In June
2009 Medical Capital was sued by the SEC and a receiver was appointed to liquidate Medical Capital. The plaintiffs in the Signature lawsuit are financial advisors that sold Medical Capital investments to their clients. Those plaintiffs were sued by
their clients for losses related to Medical Capital and now seek to recover damages from the CBIZ Parties and Mayer Hoffman for the losses and expenses they incurred in litigation with their respective clients and lost profits. The Signature lawsuit
seeks to impose auditor-type liabilities upon the CBIZ Parties for attest services they did not conduct. Specific claims include fraud, intentional misrepresentation and concealment; negligent misrepresentation; equitable indemnity; declaratory
relief and respondeat superior.  The CBIZ Parties deny all allegations of wrongdoing made against them in the Signature lawsuit and are
vigorously defending the proceeding. The Company has been advised by Mayer Hoffman that it denies all 
  18 


Table of Contents

allegations of wrongdoing made against it and that it intends to continue vigorously defending the matters. Although the proceedings are subject to uncertainties inherent in the litigation
process and the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is not presently determinable, management believes that the allegations are without merit and that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.  In addition to those items disclosed above, the Company
is, from time to time, subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the ultimate disposition of such proceedings is not presently determinable, management does not believe that the ultimate resolution of these
matters will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.  
Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures.  Not applicable. 
  19 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
Price Range of Common Stock  CBIZ’s
common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the trading symbol “CBZ”. The table below sets forth the range of high and low sales prices for CBIZ’s common stock as reported on the NYSE for the periods
indicated.   




















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First quarter
  
$
7.30
  
  
$
6.17
  
  
$
7.84
  
  
$
6.09
  

 Second quarter
  
$
7.75
  
  
$
6.92
  
  
$
7.53
  
  
$
6.27
  

 Third quarter
  
$
7.73
  
  
$
6.11
  
  
$
6.78
  
  
$
5.20
  

 Fourth quarter
  
$
7.07
  
  
$
5.27
  
  
$
6.50
  
  
$
5.22
  
 On December 31, 2011, the last reported sale price of CBIZ’s common stock as reported on the NYSE was $6.11 per
share. As of February 29, 2012, CBIZ had approximately 2,100 holders of record of its common stock, and the last sale of CBIZ’s common stock as of that date was $6.50.  As required by the NYSE, CBIZ filed its annual CEO certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as required by NYSE rule 303A. There
were no qualifications in this certification. In addition, CBIZ has filed Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which represent the certifications of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as required under
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  Dividend Policy  CBIZ’s credit facility does not permit CBIZ to declare or make any dividend payments, other than dividend payments made by one of CBIZ’s wholly owned subsidiaries to the parent company.
Historically, CBIZ has not paid cash dividends on its common stock, and does not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. CBIZ’s Board of Directors has discretion over the payment and level of dividends on common stock,
subject to the limitations of the credit facility. The Board of Directors’ decision is based, among other things, on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. CBIZ intends to retain future earnings to finance the ongoing
operations and growth of the business. Any future determination as to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be subject to the terms and restrictions of CBIZ’s credit facility. 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   


(a)
Recent sales of unregistered securities 
On December 31, 2011, approximately 251,100 shares of CBIZ common stock became issuable as contingent consideration owed to former owners of
businesses that were acquired by CBIZ.  The above referenced shares were issued in transactions not involving a public offering in reliance on
the exemption from registration afforded by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The persons to whom the shares were issued had access to full information about CBIZ and represented that they acquired the shares for their own account and not for
the purpose of distribution. The certificates for the shares contain a restrictive legend advising that the shares may not be offered for sale, sold, or otherwise transferred without having first been registered under the Securities Act or pursuant
to an exemption from the Securities Act. 
  20 


Table of Contents


(c)
Issuer purchases of equity securities 
Periodically, CBIZ’s Board of Directors authorizes a Share Repurchase Plan which allows the Company to purchase shares of its common stock in the
open market or in a privately negotiated transaction according to SEC rules. On February 22, 2012, February 10, 2011 and February 11, 2010, CBIZ’s Board of Directors authorized Share Repurchase Plans, each of which
authorized the purchase of up to 5.0 million shares of CBIZ common stock. Each Share Repurchase Plan is effective beginning April 1 of the respective plan year, and each expires one year from the respective effective date. The repurchase
plans do not obligate CBIZ to acquire any specific number of shares and may be suspended at any time.  Pursuant to an agreement (the
“Westbury Agreement”) entered into on September 14, 2010 by CBIZ with its largest shareholder, Westbury (Bermuda) Ltd. (“Westbury”), a company organized by CBIZ founder Michael G. DeGroote, CBIZ purchased an option for $5.0
million, which expires on September 30, 2013, to purchase up to approximately 7.7 million shares of CBIZ’s common stock at a price of $7.25 per share, which constitutes the remaining shares of CBIZ’s common stock held by
Westbury.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, CBIZ repurchased 1.4 million shares under the share repurchase programs at an
aggregate cost (including fees and commissions) of $8.9 million.  Shares repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2011 (reported on a trade
date basis) are summarized in the table below (in thousands, except per share data).   




















 
  
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 

 Fourth Quarter Purchases(1)
  
TotalNumberof SharesPurchased
 
  
AveragePrice 
PaidPerShare(2)
 
  
Total Number ofSharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plan
 
  
MaximumNumber ofShares ThatMay Yet BePurchasedUnder the Plan(3)
 

 October 1 — October 31, 2011
  
 
105
  
  
$
6.41
  
  
 
105
  
  
 
3,790
  

 November 1 — November 30, 2011
  
 
146
  
  
$
5.83
  
  
 
146
  
  
 
3,644
  

 December 1 — December 31, 2011
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,644
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




 Total fourth quarter purchases
  
 
251
  
  
$
6.07
  
  
 
251
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



  


(1)
CBIZ has utilized, and may utilize in the future, a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan to allow for repurchases by the Company during periods when it would not normally be active
in the trading market due to regulatory restrictions. Under the Rule 10b5-1 trading plan, CBIZ was able to repurchase shares below a pre-determined price per share. Additionally, the maximum number of shares that may be purchased by the Company each
day is governed by Rule 10b-18.   


(2)
Average price paid per share includes fees and commissions.   


(3)
Calculated under the share repurchase plan expiring March 31, 2012. 
  21 


Table of Contents
Performance Graph  The following graph compares the cumulative 5-year total return to stockholders on CBIZ, Inc.’s common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the Russell 2000 index
and a customized peer group of six companies that includes: Brown & Brown Inc, H & R Block Inc, National Financial Partners Corp., Paychex Inc, Resources Connection Inc and Towers Watson & Company. The graph tracks the
performance of a $100 investment in CBIZ common stock, in each index and in the peer group (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011. 
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*  Among CBIZ, Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index,  and a Peer Group
   

  


*$100
invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 
Copyright©
 2012 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.   
















  
  
12/2006
  
12/2007
  
12/2008
  
12/2009
  
12/2010
  
12/2011

 CBIZ, Inc.
  
$100.00
  
$140.75
  
$124.10
  
$110.47
  
$  89.53
  
$  87.66

 S&P 500
  
$100.00
  
$105.49
  
$  66.46
  
$  84.05
  
$  96.71
  
$  98.75

 Russell 2000
  
$100.00
  
$  98.43
  
$  65.18
  
$  82.89
  
$105.14
  
$100.75

 Peer Group
  
$100.00
  
$  89.58
  
$  77.46
  
$  85.44
  
$  79.81
  
$  85.69
 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.

  22 


Table of Contents
Item 6.     Selected Financial Data. 
The following table presents selected historical financial data for CBIZ. The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 
 
























 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010(1)
 
 
2009(1)
 
 
2008(1)
 
 
2007(1)
 

 
 
(In thousands, except per share data)
 

 Statement of Operations Data:
 




 Revenue
 
$
733,805
  
 
$
730,401
  
 
$
736,787
  
 
$
682,459
  
 
$
616,339
  

 Operating expenses
 
 
643,867
  
 
 
644,335
  
 
 
648,409
  
 
 
584,403
  
 
 
537,401
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
 
 
89,938
  
 
 
86,066
  
 
 
88,378
  
 
 
98,056
  
 
 
78,938
  

 Corporate general and administrative expenses
 
 
31,985
  
 
 
29,584
  
 
 
30,722
  
 
 
28,691
  
 
 
29,437
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
 
 
57,953
  
 
 
56,482
  
 
 
57,656
  
 
 
69,365
  
 
 
49,501
  

 Other income (expense):
 



 



 



 



 




 Interest expense
 
 
(17,355
) 
 
 
(15,308
) 
 
 
(13,392
) 
 
 
(10,786
) 
 
 
(9,038
) 

 Gain on sale of operations, net
 
 
2,920
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
989
  
 
 
745
  
 
 
144
  

 Other income (expense), net(2)
 
 
3,449
  
 
 
3,532
  
 
 
6,622
  
 
 
(7,618
) 
 
 
10,586
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other (expense) income
 
 
(10,986
) 
 
 
(11,310
) 
 
 
(5,781
) 
 
 
(17,659
) 
 
 
1,692
  

 Income from continuing operations before income tax expense
 
 
46,967
  
 
 
45,172
  
 
 
51,875
  
 
 
51,706
  
 
 
51,193
  

 Income tax expense
 
 
18,383
  
 
 
17,017
  
 
 
19,823
  
 
 
19,768
  
 
 
20,789
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
 
 
28,584
  
 
 
28,155
  
 
 
32,052
  
 
 
31,938
  
 
 
30,404
  

 Loss from operations of discontinued operations, net of tax
 
 
(591
) 
 
 
(2,668
) 
 
 
(866
) 
 
 
(1,266
) 
 
 
(1,477
) 

 Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax
 
 
14
  
 
 
(973
) 
 
 
210
  
 
 
(268
) 
 
 
3,882
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
28,007
  
 
$
24,514
  
 
$
31,396
  
 
$
30,404
  
 
$
32,809
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic weighted average common shares
 
 
49,328
  
 
 
57,692
  
 
 
61,200
  
 
 
61,839
  
 
 
65,061
  

 Diluted weighted average common shares
 
 
49,599
  
 
 
58,193
  
 
 
61,859
  
 
 
62,572
  
 
 
66,356
  

 Diluted earnings per share:
 



 



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
 
$
0.58
  
 
$
0.48
  
 
$
0.52
  
 
$
0.51
  
 
$
0.46
  

 Net income
 
$
0.56
  
 
$
0.42
  
 
$
0.51
  
 
$
0.49
  
 
$
0.49
  

 Other Data:
 



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
 
$
812,357
  
 
$
756,299
  
 
$
713,098
  
 
$
699,868
  
 
$
574,078
  

 Long-term debt(3)
 
$
265,527
  
 
$
235,663
  
 
$
203,848
  
 
$
215,040
  
 
$
116,990
  

 Total liabilities
 
$
552,199
  
 
$
526,627
  
 
$
442,480
  
 
$
456,993
  
 
$
337,762
  

 Total stockholders’ equity
 
$
260,158
  
 
$
229,672
  
 
$
270,618
  
 
$
241,599
  
 
$
234,726
  

 Adjusted EBITDA(4)
 
$
81,747
  
 
$
82,342
  
 
$
84,774
  
 
$
75,863
  
 
$
66,155
  
  


(1)
Amounts for 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, including the impact of a business that was classified as a
discontinued operation during 2011.   


(2)
Other income (expense), net includes gains or losses attributable to assets held in the Company’s deferred compensation plan which totaled a (loss) gain of ($0.4)
million, $3.7 million, $5.5 million, ($7.6) million, and $1.3 million for 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. These gains or losses do not impact “income from continuing operations” as they are directly offset by compensation
to the Plan participants. During 2011 and 2010, CBIZ recorded other income of $3.5 million and $1.5 million, respectively, related to decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration related to CBIZ’s prior acquisitions. During 2010,
CBIZ recorded a $2.0 million loss in other income (expense), net from the early retirement of $60 million face value of its convertible senior subordinated notes that were issued in 2006. In addition, CBIZ sold its investment in Albridge Solutions,
Inc., which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $0.8 million and $7.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other income (expense), net for 2008 also includes an impairment charge of $2.3 million related to the
Company’s investment in an auction rate security.   


(3)
Represents bank debt, the long-term portion of convertible notes, and the long-term portion of notes payable, which are reported in “other non-current
liabilities” in CBIZ’s consolidated balance sheets.   


(4)
Adjusted EBITDA represents income from continuing operations before income tax expense, interest expense, gain on sale of operations, net, and depreciation and
amortization expense. Adjusted EBITDA for 2010 also excludes the loss resulting from the retirement of $60 million of its convertible senior subordinated notes, and adjusted EBITDA for 2008 and 2007 excludes gains related to the sale of a long-term
investment. See note (2) above for a description of these items. The Company has included Adjusted EBITDA because such data is commonly used as a performance measure by analysts and investors and as a measure of the Company’s ability to
service debt. Adjusted EBITDA should not be regarded as an alternative or replacement to any measurement of performance under generally accepted accounting principles. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  The following discussion is intended to assist in the understanding of CBIZ’s
financial position at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and results of operations and cash flows for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. This discussion should be read in conjunction with CBIZ’s consolidated financial
statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in
“Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Executive Summary
 Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by 0.5% to $733.8 million from $730.4 million for the comparable period in
2010. The revenue increase is attributable to newly acquired operations, net of divestitures, resulting in an increase of $13.1 million, or 1.8%, offset by declines in same unit revenue of $9.7 million, or 1.3%. 
Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.58 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $0.48 per share for the
year ended December 31, 2010. Earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2011 include a gain of approximately $0.02 per diluted share related to the divestiture of the wealth management business, and a favorable adjustment of
approximately $0.04 per diluted share related to decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration payable related to prior acquisitions. For the year ended December 30, 2010, earnings per share included a charge of $0.02 per diluted
share for lease restructuring activities in connection with the acquisition of Goldstein Lewin & Company in Boca Raton, Florida, a charge of $0.02 per diluted share related to the $2.0 million loss recorded in connection with the early
redemption of the Company’s 2006 Notes, and a favorable adjustment of $0.02 per diluted share related to decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration payable related to prior acquisitions. 
Cash earnings per diluted share were $1.10, $1.03 and $0.99 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. CBIZ believes cash
earnings per diluted share more clearly illustrates the impact of certain non-cash charges to income from continuing operations and is a useful measure for the Company and its analysts. Cash earnings per diluted share is a measurement prepared on a
basis other than generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), otherwise known as a non-GAAP measure. As such, the Company has included this data and has provided a reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measurement, “income per
diluted share from continuing operations”. Reconciliations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are provided in the “Results of Operations — Continuing Operations” section that follows. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, CBIZ acquired four businesses: Thompson Dunavant PLC, Gresham Smith LLC, Multiple Benefit Services, Inc.
(“MBS”), and Atlantic MDR, LLC (d/b/a Advantage Benefit Planning) (“ABP”). Thompson Dunavant PLC is an accounting and financial services firm located in Memphis, Tennessee and provides tax and financial consulting services to a
number of clients ranging from small closely-held companies to large multi-national businesses. Gresham Smith LLC is an accounting and tax firm based in St. Louis, Missouri and provides accounting and tax services to individuals and small
businesses. Future annual revenues for Thompson Dunavant PLC and Gresham Smith LLC are estimated to be approximately $15.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively. Both Thompson Dunavant PLC and Gresham Smith LLC are reported in the Financial
Services practice group. MBS is an employee benefits consulting firm located in Atlanta, Georgia and provides employee benefit consulting and support services to both small and large companies. ABP is located in Pleasantville, New Jersey and
provides employee benefit and retirement plan consulting and services to variety of clients. Future annual revenues for MBS and ABP are estimated to be approximately $3.5 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The acquisitions of MBS and ABP are
reported in the Employee Services practice group. In addition to the business acquisitions, CBIZ acquired a client list in the actuarial and retirement plan consulting business. The client list is reported in the Employee Services practice group.
 On January 1, 2011, CBIZ sold its individual wealth management business and recorded a $2.3 million gain. This sale transaction was
recorded as a divestiture as it did not meet the specific requirements to be treated as a discontinued operation. Therefore, the annual revenues for 2010 of approximately $6.6 million associated with

  24 


Table of Contents

this business have been excluded from the same store revenues when compared to 2011. This business was formerly reported in the Employee Services practice group. Based on the provisions of the
sales agreement, CBIZ expects to record an additional gain of approximately $2.5 million in the first quarter of 2012 contingent on the value of the client list retained by the purchaser as of January 1, 2012. 
On June 1, 2011, the holders of CBIZ’s 2006 Notes provided notice to the Company to redeem $39.3 million of the outstanding $40.0 million 2006
Notes. The 2006 Notes were settled in cash for the principal amount and any accrued and unpaid interest. The remaining $750,000 of 2006 Notes may be redeemed by CBIZ at any time until the due date of June 1, 2026. The holders of the remaining
2006 Notes have the right to require CBIZ to repurchase their 2006 Notes on June 1, 2016 and June 1, 2021 for 100% of the principal plus any accrued interest.  In April 2011, CBIZ amended its credit facility to extend the maturity date one year to June 2015, reduce interest on outstanding balances, reduce commitment fees on the unused amount of credit, and
adjust the leverage ratio limits to provide CBIZ with more flexibility.  CBIZ believes that repurchasing shares of its common stock is a use
of cash that provides value to its stockholders. CBIZ purchased approximately 1.4 million shares of its common stock under this plan at a total cost of approximately $9.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. On
February 22, 2012, CBIZ’s Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 5.0 million shares of CBIZ common stock through March 31, 2013. The shares may be repurchased in the open market or through privately negotiated
purchases in accordance with SEC rules.  Results of Operations — Continuing Operations 
CBIZ provides professional business services that help clients manage their finances and employees. CBIZ delivers its integrated services through the
following four practice groups: Financial Services, Employee Services, MMP, and National Practices. A description of these groups’ operating results and factors affecting their businesses is provided below. 
Same-unit revenue represents total revenue adjusted to reflect comparable periods of activity for acquisitions and divestitures. For example, for a
business acquired on July 1, 2010, revenue for the period January 1, 2011 through June 30, 2011 would be reported as revenue from acquired businesses; same-unit revenue would include revenue for the periods July 1 through
December 31 of both years. Divested operations represent operations that did not meet the criteria for treatment as discontinued operations. Those businesses that have met the requirements to be treated as a discontinued operation are
eliminated from all periods presented below.  Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010
 Revenue  The
following table summarizes total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands, except percentages):   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 Same-unit revenue
  



 



  



 




 Financial Services
  
$
374,784
  
 
$
380,130
  
  
$
(5,346
) 
 
 
(1.4
)% 

 Employee Services
  
 
167,953
  
 
 
167,510
  
  
 
443
  
 
 
0.3
% 

 MMP
  
 
141,046
  
 
 
148,425
  
  
 
(7,379
) 
 
 
(5.0
)% 

 National Practices
  
 
30,322
  
 
 
27,749
  
  
 
2,573
  
 
 
9.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total same-unit revenue
  
 
714,105
  
 
 
723,814
  
  
 
(9,709
) 
 
 
(1.3
)% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
19,702
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
19,702
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
6,587
  
  
 
(6,589
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
$
733,805
  
 
$
730,401
  
  
$
3,404
  
 
 
0.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 A detailed discussion of revenue by practice group is included under “Operating Practice Groups”. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Gross margin and operating expenses — Operating expenses decreased to $643.9 million for the
year ended December 31, 2011 from $644.3 for the comparable period in 2010, and decreased as a percentage of revenue to 87.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 88.2% for the comparable period in 2010. The majority of CBIZ’s
operating costs are relatively fixed in the short term, thus gross margin as a percentage of revenue generally improves with revenue growth and generally declines as revenue contracts. The primary components of operating expenses for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010 are illustrated in the following table:   
























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change in%
ofRevenue
 

 
  
% 
ofOperatingExpense
 
 
% ofRevenue
 
 
%
ofOperatingExpense
 
 
% ofRevenue
 
 

 Personnel costs
  
 
74.0
% 
 
 
64.9
% 
 
 
74.3
% 
 
 
65.5
% 
 
 
(0.6
)% 

 Occupancy costs
  
 
6.9
% 
 
 
6.1
% 
 
 
7.1
% 
 
 
6.2
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
3.1
% 
 
 
2.7
% 
 
 
3.1
% 
 
 
2.7
% 
 
 
—
  

 Travel and related costs
  
 
3.2
% 
 
 
2.8
% 
 
 
2.8
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
0.3
% 

 Professional fees
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
1.8
% 
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
0.1
% 

 Other(1)
  
 
10.9
% 
 
 
9.5
% 
 
 
10.2
% 
 
 
9.2
% 
 
 
0.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
100.1
% 
 
 
87.8
% 
 
 
99.5
% 
 
 
87.8
% 
 
 
—
  

 Deferred compensation costs
  
 
(0.1
)% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
(0.5
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
87.7
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
88.2
% 
 
 
(0.5
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
  



 
 
12.3
% 
 



 
 
11.8
% 
 
 
0.5
% 


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Other operating expenses include office expense, equipment costs, restructuring charges, bad debt and other expenses, none of which are individually significant as a
percentage of total operating expenses.  Personnel costs as a percentage of revenue decreased 0.6% to 64.9% for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. The decrease in personnel costs as a percentage of revenue was primarily the result of a 0.6% decrease in salaries and wages. The increase or decrease in personnel costs as a percentage of
revenue experienced by the individual practice groups is discussed in further detail under “Operating Practice Groups”. The increase in travel and related costs as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to increased client development
and retention efforts and an increase in professional staff training. The decrease in deferred compensation costs of 0.5% resulted from adjustments to the fair value of investments held in the deferred compensation plan. The adjustments to the fair
value of investments held in relation to the deferred compensation plan totaled a loss of $0.7 million and a gain of $3.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These adjustments are recorded as compensation
expense and are offset by the same adjustments to “other income, net”, and thus do not have an impact on net income. Although these adjustments are recorded as operating expenses, they are not allocated to the individual practice groups.

  26 


Table of Contents
Corporate general and administrative expenses — Corporate general and administrative
(“G&A”) expenses increased by $2.4 million to $32.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, from $29.6 million for the comparable period of 2010, and increased as a percent of revenue by 0.3% to 4.4% for the year ended
December 31, 2011. The primary components of corporate general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are illustrated in the following table: 
 
























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change in%
ofRevenue
 

 
  
% ofG&AExpense
 
 
% ofRevenue
 
 
% ofG&AExpense
 
 
% ofRevenue
 
 

 Personnel costs
  
 
52.7
% 
 
 
2.3
% 
 
 
53.0
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
0.2
% 

 Professional services
  
 
14.6
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
15.7
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
—
  

 Legal settlement costs
  
 
7.1
% 
 
 
0.3
% 
 
 
2.3
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
0.2
% 

 Computer costs
  
 
5.4
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
5.4
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
—
  

 Travel and related costs
  
 
4.0
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
3.3
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
0.1
% 

 Occupancy costs
  
 
2.5
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
3.9
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.3
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 

 Other(1)
  
 
11.5
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 
 
13.3
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
0.1
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
98.9
% 
 
 
4.4
% 
 
 
98.2
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
0.4
% 

 Deferred compensation costs
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.8
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate general and administrative expenses
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
4.4
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
4.1
% 
 
 
0.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Other corporate general and administrative expenses include office expenses, insurance expense and other expenses, none of which are individually significant as a
percentage of total corporate G&A expenses.  The increase in G&A expenses as a percentage of revenue attributable to
personnel costs is primarily due to an increase in incentive based compensation and stock based compensation. The 0.2% increase in legal settlement costs as a percentage of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same
period in 2010 was primarily due to the combination of higher than normal legal settlement costs incurred during 2011 compared to lower than normal legal settlement costs during 2010, partially due to the Company receiving a $1.0 million favorable
settlement in 2010.  Interest expense — Interest expense increased by $2.1 million to $17.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 from $15.3 million for the comparable period in 2010. The increase in interest expense is a result of three components: an increase of $7.1 million related to the $130 million of Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes that were
issued in June 2010 (“2010 Notes”), a decrease of $5.3 million from the retirement of $99.3 million of 2006 Notes, and an increase of $0.3 million related to the credit facility. For discussion on the convertible senior subordinated notes,
see Note 8 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Regarding the credit facility, the $0.3 million increase in interest expense was due to an increase in the average debt outstanding, partially offset by a decrease in the average
interest rates. Average debt outstanding under the credit facility was $142.8 million and $126.0 million and weighted average interest rates were 3.27% and 3.66% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Debt is further
discussed under “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and in Note 8 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  Gain on
sale of operations, net — The gain on sale of operations, net was $2.9 million and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase was primarily due to the $2.3 million gain recognized from the
sale of the Company’s individual wealth management business in the first quarter of 2011. The operating results of the individual wealth management business were included in the Employee Services practice group. 
Other income, net — Other income, net is primarily comprised of adjustments to the fair value of investments held in a rabbi trust related to
the deferred compensation plan, interest income, gains and losses on sales of 
  27 


Table of Contents

assets, and other miscellaneous income and expenses such as contingent royalties from previous divestitures and adjustments to contingencies related to previous acquisitions. Adjustments to the
fair value of investments related to the deferred compensation plan do not impact CBIZ’s net income as they are offset by the same adjustments to compensation expense (recorded as operating or corporate general and administrative expenses in
the consolidated statements of operations). Other income, net for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily consists of adjustments to the fair value of the Company’s contingent liability related to prior acquisitions which resulted in
other income of $3.5 million and interest income of $0.2 million. The adjustment to the contingent liability and interest income was partially offset by a $0.4 million loss in the fair value of investments related to the deferred compensation plan
and a reserve of $0.4 million established on a note receivable. Other income, net for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily consisted of a $3.7 million gain in the fair value of investments related to the deferred compensation plan, an
adjustment to the Company’s contingent liability related to prior acquisitions which resulted in other income of $1.4 million, and interest income of $0.4 million. The deferred compensation gain, adjustment to the contingent liability, and
interest income were partially offset by a $2.0 million charge on the early retirement of $60 million of CBIZ’s convertible senior subordinated notes that were issued in 2006 and a $0.3 million impairment charge related to an investment in
auction rate securities.  Income Taxes — CBIZ recorded income tax expense from continuing operations of $18.4 million and $17.0
million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 39.1% and 37.7%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate for the year ended
December 31, 2011 from the comparable period in 2010 primarily relates to increased reversals of estimated tax reserves in 2010 due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitation compared to the same period in 2011. For further discussion
regarding income tax expense, see Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  Earnings per share and cash earnings per
share — Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.58 and $0.48 per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a gain of
approximately $0.02 per diluted share related to the divestiture of the wealth management business, and a gain of approximately $0.04 per diluted share related to decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration payable related to prior
acquisitions. Earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a charge of $0.02 per diluted share for lease restructuring activities in connection with the acquisition of Goldstein Lewin & Company in Boca Raton,
Florida, a charge of $0.02 per diluted share related to the $2.0 million loss recorded in connection with the early redemption of the Company’s 2006 Notes, and a gain of $0.02 per diluted share related to decreases in the fair value of
contingent consideration payable related to prior acquisitions. Cash earnings per share were $1.10 and $1.03 per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company believes cash earnings and cash earnings
per diluted share, which are non-GAAP measures, more clearly illustrate the impact of certain non-cash charges to income from continuing operations and are a useful measure for the Company and its analysts. Management uses these performance measures
to evaluate CBIZ’s business, including ongoing performance and the allocation of resources. Cash earnings and cash earnings per diluted share are provided in addition to the presentation of GAAP measures and should not be regarded as a
replacement or alternative of performance under GAAP. 
  28 


Table of Contents
The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations to cash earnings from operations and
earnings per share from continuing operations to cash earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
CASH EARNINGS AND PER SHARE DATA  Reconciliation of Income from Continuing Operations to Cash Earnings from Continuing Operations   




















 
  
TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
Per Share
 
 
2010
 
 
Per Share
 

 
  
(In thousands, except per share data)
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
$
28,584
  
 
$
0.58
  
 
$
28,155
  
 
$
0.48
  

 Selected non-cash charges:
  



 



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
20,345
  
 
 
0.41
  
 
 
20,332
  
 
 
0.35
  

 Non-cash interest on convertible notes
  
 
3,201
  
 
 
0.06
  
 
 
4,210
  
 
 
0.08
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
5,954
  
 
 
0.12
  
 
 
5,306
  
 
 
0.09
  

 Loss on retirement of convertible bonds
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,996
  
 
 
0.03
  

 Adjustment to contingent earnouts
  
 
(3,467
) 
 
 
(0.07
) 
 
 
(1,449
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 

 Non-cash restructuring charge
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,231
  
 
 
0.02
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-cash charges
  
$
26,033
  
 
$
0.52
  
 
$
31,626
  
 
$
0.55
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash earnings—continuing operations
  
$
54,617
  
 
$
1.10
  
 
$
59,781
  
 
$
1.03
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Operating Practice Groups  Financial Services   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 
  
(In thousands, except percentages)
 

 Revenue
  




 Same-unit
  
$
374,784
  
 
$
380,130
  
 
$
(5,346
) 
 
 
(1.4
)% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
16,448
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
16,448
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
 
391,232
  
 
 
380,130
  
 
 
11,102
  
 
 
2.9
% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
337,304
  
 
 
326,412
  
 
 
10,892
  
 
 
3.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin
  
$
53,928
  
 
$
53,718
  
 
$
210
  
 
 
0.4
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin percent
  
 
13.8
% 
 
 
14.1
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 Same-unit aggregate hours charged to clients declined approximately 5% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared
to the year ended December 31, 2010, which was partially offset by a 1% increase in effective rates realized for services provided for the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the comparable period in 2010. The decline in hours was due to
decreased client demand and improved engagement efficiencies. The improvement in rates realized for services provided was due to a modest increase in rates as well as improved engagement efficiencies. Revenue from acquired businesses was a result of
the acquisitions of Kirkland, Russ, Murphy, & Tapp (“KRMT”), which occurred on November 1, 2010, Thompson Dunavant PLC, which occurred on August 1, 2011 and to a lesser extent Gresham Smith LLC, which occurred on
October 1, 2011.  CBIZ provides a range of services to affiliated CPA firms under joint referral and ASAs. Fees earned by CBIZ under the
ASAs are recorded as revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and were approximately $109.1 million and $110.1 million for the years ended December, 2011 and 2010, respectively, a majority of which is related to services
rendered to privately-held clients. The decrease in ASA fees is primarily the result of declines at several units, which offset the acquisitions of the attestation business of KRMT and Thompson Dunavant PLC by affiliated CPA firms. 
  29 


Table of Contents
The largest components of operating expenses for the Financial Services group are personnel costs,
occupancy costs, and travel and related costs which represented 88.4% and 89.6% of total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Personnel costs increased $4.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, and represented 78.4% and 79.6% of total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase was attributable to $11.6 million associated with
the acquisitions of KRMT, Thompson Dunavant PLC and to a lesser extent Gresham Smith LLC, partially offset by a reduction in same-unit personnel costs of $7.3 million. The $7.3 million reduction in same-unit personnel costs was associated primarily
with staff reductions at those units that experienced reduced client demand. Personnel costs represented 67.6% and 68.4% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Occupancy costs are relatively fixed in nature and
were $23.7 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and were 6.1% and 6.2% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Travel and related costs were $10.2 million for the
year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $8.7 million in the same period in 2010, and were 2.6% and 2.3% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in travel and related costs was due to
increased client development and professional staff training efforts.  Gross margin percentage declined to 13.8% for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to 14.1% in 2010. The decline in gross margin percentage was primarily attributable to higher bad debt expense, travel and related costs, and recruiting costs. Bad debt expense increased to 1.5% of revenue for the
year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 1.1% of revenue is the same period in 2010. The increase in bad debt expense in 2011 was related to specific client receivables at several offices and not related to an overall deterioration in the
collectability of accounts receivable.  Employee Services 
 




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 
  
(In thousands, except percentages)
 

 Revenue
  




 Same-unit
  
$
167,953
  
 
$
167,510
  
 
$
443
  
 
 
0.3
% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
3,254
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,254
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
6,587
  
 
 
(6,589
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
 
171,205
  
 
 
174,097
  
 
 
(2,892
) 
 
 
(1.7
)% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
144,126
  
 
 
144,552
  
 
 
(426
) 
 
 
(0.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin
  
$
27,079
  
 
$
29,545
  
 
$
(2,466
) 
 
 
(8.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin percent
  
 
15.8
% 
 
 
17.0
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 The increase in same-unit revenue was primarily attributable to increases in the retirement plan advisory, specialty life
insurance and human capital advisory businesses, offset in part by declines in the Company’s employee benefits and property and casualty businesses. The Company’s retirement advisory business increased approximately $1.6 million due to
higher asset values resulting largely from favorable market performance, the specialty life insurance business increased $2.6 million due to an increase in the number of policy placements, and the human capital advisory and payroll revenues
increased approximately $3.4 million due to an increase in demand for recruiting and compensation consulting services, as well as increased pricing for payroll-related services. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in the employee
benefits business of approximately $3.5 million due to client attrition and to a lesser extent, downsizing of client workforce and employer plan design changes, and a decline of $2.2 million in property and casualty revenues due to soft market
conditions in pricing and lower volume-based carrier bonus payments. The growth in revenue from acquired businesses was provided by Benexx and MBS. The decline in revenue from divestitures was due to the sale of the wealth management business in the
first quarter of 2011. 
  30 


Table of Contents
The largest components of operating expenses for the Employee Services group were personnel costs,
including commissions paid to third party brokers, and occupancy costs, representing 82.7% and 83.2% of total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Excluding personnel costs related to the divested
wealth management businesses of $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, personnel costs increased approximately $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of
additional commissions paid to third party brokers related to the increase in specialty life insurance sales. Personnel costs represented 64.0% and 63.3% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Occupancy
costs are relatively fixed in nature, and excluding the costs associated with the divested wealth management businesses of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, were $9.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 Gross margin percent was impacted by three factors. The decline in volume-based carrier bonus payments has a direct negative impact on gross
margin, since there are no corresponding expenses associated with these revenues. In addition, the decrease in operating revenues in both the employee benefits and property casualty businesses played a role in the margin decline, despite a
corresponding savings in variable sales commissions. These were offset, in part, by an increase from retirement advisory and human capital advisory revenues. Asset-based revenues do not have related direct costs, and human capital advisory revenues
have a more fixed cost structure; therefore, growth in those revenues has a favorable impact on gross margin.  Medical Management
Professionals   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 
  
(In thousands, except percentages)
 

 Revenue
  




 Same-unit
  
$
141,046
  
 
$
148,425
  
 
$
(7,379
) 
 
 
(5.0
)% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
 
141,046
  
 
 
148,425
  
 
 
(7,379
) 
 
 
(5.0
)% 

 Operating expense
  
 
124,790
  
 
 
131,897
  
 
 
(7,107
) 
 
 
(5.4
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin
  
$
16,256
  
 
$
16,528
  
 
$
(272
) 
 
 
(1.6
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin percent
  
 
11.5
% 
 
 
11.1
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 Same-unit revenue consists of revenue from existing clients and net new business sold. Same-unit revenue decreased 5.0%
for the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the comparable period in 2010. The decrease in same-unit revenue was approximately 60% attributable to decreased revenues from existing clients, with the remaining 40% attributable to client
terminations, net of new business. The decline in revenue from existing clients can be attributed to several factors including: decreases in number of procedures processed, decreases in pricing and reimbursement rates and a change in the mix of
procedures resulting in a decrease in the average revenue per procedure. The decline in revenue from client terminations was attributable to many reasons including: physician groups losing their hospital contracts, changes in group ownership,
hospital consolidations and increased competitive pressures. The loss of revenue due to client terminations net of new business improved in 2011 compared to 2010.  The largest components of operating expenses for MMP are personnel costs, professional service fees for off-shore and electronic claims processing, occupancy costs and office expenses (primarily postage
related to the Company’s statement mailing services). These expenses represented 85.8% and 86.3% of total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Due to a reduction in headcount, personnel costs
decreased $5.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and decreased as a percentage of 
  31 


Table of Contents

revenue to 55.4% versus 56.2% for the comparable period in 2010. The reduction in headcount and related personnel costs in billing operations is due to the expanded utilization of off-shore
processing, utilization of new technologies, as well as a response to the decline in revenue. The decrease in personnel costs was partially offset by an increase of $0.4 million in professional services for the year ended December 31, 2011
compared to the same period in 2010. Office expenses decreased $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and decreased as a percentage of revenue to 7.6% from 7.9% for the year ended December 31, 2010 as a result of a decrease in
statement mailings. Facilities costs decreased $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and decreased slightly as a percentage of revenue to 6.7% from 6.9% for the comparable period in 2010 due to the consolidation of certain offices.
 The increase in gross margin is the result of the Company’s cost management actions including the reduction in headcount and related
decrease in personnel costs as described above.  National Practices 
 




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
$Change
 
  
%Change
 

 
  
(In thousands, except percentages)
 

 Revenue
  




 Same-unit
  
$
30,322
  
 
$
27,749
  
 
$
2,573
  
  
 
9.3
% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  




 Divested operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Total revenue
  
 
30,322
  
 
 
27,749
  
 
 
2,573
  
  
 
9.3
% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
26,222
  
 
 
25,794
  
 
 
428
  
  
 
1.7
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Gross margin
  
$
4,100
  
 
$
1,955
  
 
$
2,145
  
  
 
109.7
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Gross margin percent
  
 
13.5
% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



 The National Practices group is primarily comprised of a cost-plus contract with CBIZ’s largest client (Edward
Jones), healthcare consulting, and the Company’s mergers and acquisition business. Revenues from the Edward Jones business account for approximately two-thirds of the National Practice group’s revenue, with the healthcare consulting and
mergers and acquisitions accounting for the remaining revenue. The increase in revenue was attributable to an increase of $1.7 million in CBIZ’s mergers and acquisitions business, $0.8 million from the healthcare consulting business and $0.1
million in services provided to Edward Jones. The increase in the mergers and acquisitions business was a result of earning success fees for completing two transactions during the year ended December 31, 2011, whereas no transactions were
completed during the same period in 2010. The increase in the healthcare consulting business was primarily due to an increase in coding and auditing services performed in the clinical business, an increase in Medicaid eligibility services provided
to clients, and an increase in consulting fees resulting from a newly released product that enables clients to quantify the impact of pending health care reform legislation. The increase in the Edward Jones revenue was primarily the result of an
increase in required technology support.  The largest components of operating expenses for the National Practices group are personnel costs,
occupancy costs, and travel and related costs representing 94.2% and 94.8% of total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Personnel costs increased $0.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2011 compared to the same period in 2010, but decreased as a percentage of revenue to 78.6% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 85.1% of revenue for the same period last year. The increase in personnel costs is due
primarily to additional incentive compensation to certain individuals in the mergers and acquisitions business resulting from completing two transactions during the year ended December 31, 2011, as well as increases in wages for annual raises.
Travel and related costs were consistent in 
  32 


Table of Contents

both periods and were $0.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Occupancy costs are relatively fixed in nature and were $0.5 million for the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010.  The increase in gross margin and gross margin percentage is due to the increase in revenue offset by a modest increase in
operating expenses, as described above, for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the same period last year.  Year Ended
December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  Revenue 
The following table summarizes total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands, except percentages): 
 




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 Same-unit revenue
  



  



  



 




 Financial Services
  
$
366,548
  
  
$
377,341
  
  
$
(10,793
) 
 
 
(2.9
)% 

 Employee Services
  
 
167,573
  
  
 
170,846
  
  
 
(3,273
) 
 
 
(1.9
)% 

 MMP
  
 
148,425
  
  
 
160,632
  
  
 
(12,207
) 
 
 
(7.6
)% 

 National Practices
  
 
27,749
  
  
 
27,968
  
  
 
(219
) 
 
 
(0.8
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total same-unit revenue
  
 
710,295
  
  
 
736,787
  
  
 
(26,492
) 
 
 
(3.6
)% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
20,106
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
20,106
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
$
730,401
  
  
$
736,787
  
  
$
(6,386
) 
 
 
(0.9
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 A detailed discussion of revenue by practice group is included under “Operating Practice Groups”. 
Gross margin and operating expenses — The majority of CBIZ’s operating costs are relatively fixed in the short term, thus gross margin
as a percentage of revenue generally improves with revenue growth, but declines as revenue contracts. The primary components of operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are illustrated in the following table:
  
























 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 
 

 
  
% ofOperatingExpense
 
 
% ofRevenue
 
 
% ofOperatingExpense
 
 
% ofRevenue
 
 
Change in% ofRevenue
 

 Personnel costs
  
 
74.3
% 
 
 
65.5
% 
 
 
73.7
% 
 
 
64.8
% 
 
 
0.7
% 

 Occupancy costs
  
 
7.1
% 
 
 
6.2
% 
 
 
7.1
% 
 
 
6.2
% 
 
 
—
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
3.1
% 
 
 
2.7
% 
 
 
3.1
% 
 
 
2.7
% 
 
 
—
  

 Travel and related costs
  
 
2.8
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.7
% 
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
0.1
% 

 Professional fees
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
1.9
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
—
  

 Other(1)
  
 
10.2
% 
 
 
9.2
% 
 
 
10.8
% 
 
 
9.5
% 
 
 
(0.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
99.5
% 
 
 
87.8
% 
 
 
99.3
% 
 
 
87.3
% 
 
 
0.5
% 

 Deferred compensation costs
  
 
0.5
% 
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 
 
(0.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
88.2
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
88.0
% 
 
 
0.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
  



 
 
11.8
% 
 



 
 
12.0
% 
 
 
(0.2
)% 


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    


(1)
Other operating expenses include office expense, equipment costs, restructuring charges, bad debt and other expenses, none of which are individually significant as a
percentage of total operating expenses. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Personnel costs as a percentage of revenue increased 0.7% to 65.5% for the year ended December 31,
2010 compared to the same period in 2009. The increase in personnel costs as a percentage of revenue was primarily the result of a 0.5% increase in incentive compensation costs incurred in 2010 and an increase of 0.2% in employee benefit costs. The
increase or decrease in personnel costs as a percentage of revenue experienced by the individual practice groups is discussed in further detail under “Operating Practice Groups”. The decrease in deferred compensation costs of 0.3% resulted
from adjustments to the fair value of investments held in the deferred compensation plan. The adjustments to the fair value of investments held in relation to the deferred compensation plan totaled gains of $3.2 million and $4.8 million for the
years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These adjustments are recorded as compensation expense and are offset by the same adjustments to “other income (expense), net”, and thus do not have an impact on net income.
Although these adjustments are recorded as operating expenses, they are not allocated to the individual practice groups.  Corporate general
and administrative expenses — Corporate general and administrative (“G&A”) expenses decreased by $1.1 million to $29.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, from $30.7 million for the comparable period of 2009,
and decreased as a percent of revenue by 0.1% to 4.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The primary components of corporate general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are illustrated in the
following table:   
























 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 
 

  
  
% ofG&AExpense
 
 
% ofRevenue
 
 
% ofG&AExpense
 
 
% ofRevenue
 
 
Change in% ofRevenue
 

 Personnel costs
  
 
53.0
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
51.7
% 
 
 
2.2
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 

 Professional services
  
 
15.7
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
13.5
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
—
  

 Legal settlement
  
 
2.3
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
4.7
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 

 Computer costs
  
 
5.4
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
6.0
% 
 
 
0.3
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 

 Travel and related costs
  
 
3.3
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
3.1
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
—
  

 Occupancy costs
  
 
3.9
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
4.6
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
—
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
1.3
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
2.2
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
—
  

 Other(1)
  
 
13.3
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 
 
12.0
% 
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
0.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
98.2
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
97.8
% 
 
 
4.1
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 

 Deferred compensation costs
  
 
1.8
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
2.2
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate general and administrative expenses
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
4.1
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
4.2
% 
 
 
(0.1
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Other corporate general and administrative expenses include office expenses, insurance expense and other expenses, none of which are individually significant as a
percentage of total corporate G&A expenses.  Interest expense — Interest expense increased by $1.9 million to
$15.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $13.4 million for the comparable period in 2009. The increase in interest expense is a result of three components: an increase of $2.4 million related to the $130 million of convertible
senior subordinated notes that were issued in 2010, a decrease of $0.9 million from the retirement of $60 million of convertible senior subordinated notes that were issued in 2006, and an increase of $0.4 million related to the credit facility. For
discussion on the convertible senior subordinated notes, see Note 8 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Regarding the credit facility, during 2010 CBIZ entered into a new credit facility agreement that increased the borrowing
capacity from $214 million to $275 million, among other changes to the credit facility. The new credit facility resulted in increased amortized deferred debt charges and increased commitment fee charges recognized in interest expense for the year
ended December 31, 2010 versus the comparable period in 2009. Offsetting these deferred debt and commitment fees was a decrease in average debt outstanding and average interest rates in 2010 compared to 2009. Average debt outstanding under the
credit facility was $126.0 million and $127.7 million and weighted average interest rates were 3.66% and 3.73% for the years ended 
  34 


Table of Contents

December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Debt is further discussed under “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and in Note 8 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
 Other income (expense), net — Other income (expense), net is primarily comprised of adjustments to the fair value of investments
held in a rabbi trust related to the deferred compensation plan, interest income, gains and losses on sales of assets, and other miscellaneous income and expenses such as contingent royalties from previous divestitures and adjustments to
contingencies related to previous acquisitions. Adjustments to the fair value of investments related to the deferred compensation plan do not impact CBIZ’s net income as they are offset by the same adjustments to compensation expense (recorded
as operating or corporate general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations). Other income (expense), net for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily consists of a $3.7 million gain in the fair value of
investments related to the deferred compensation plan, an adjustment to the Company’s contingent liability related to prior acquisitions which resulted in other income of $1.4 million, and interest income of $0.4 million. The deferred
compensation gain, adjustment to the contingent liability, and interest income were partially offset by a $2.0 million charge on the early retirement of $60 million of CBIZ’s convertible senior subordinated notes that were issued in 2006 and a
$0.3 million impairment charge related to an investment in auction rate securities. Other income (expense), net for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily relates to a $5.5 million increase in the fair value of investments related to the
deferred compensation plan and interest income of $0.5 million.  Income Taxes — CBIZ recorded income tax expense from continuing
operations of $17.0 million and $19.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was 37.7% and 38.2%, respectively. The decrease in the
effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 from the comparable period in 2009 primarily relates to the reversal of estimated tax reserves in 2010 due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. For further discussion
regarding income tax expense, see Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  Earnings per share and cash earnings per
share — Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.48 and $0.52 per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2010 included the impact of the $2.0
million pre-tax charge related to the early redemption of $60 million of 2006 Notes and a $1.7 million pre-tax charge related to the consolidation of facilities with the Goldstein Lewin acquisition. Cash earnings per share were $1.03 and $0.99 per
diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company believes cash earnings and cash earnings per diluted share, which are non-GAAP measures, more clearly illustrate the impact of certain non-cash charges to
income from continuing operations and are a useful measure for the Company and its analysts. Management uses these performance measures to evaluate CBIZ’s business, including ongoing performance and the allocation of resources. Cash earnings
and cash earnings per diluted share are provided in addition to the presentation of GAAP measures and should not be regarded as a replacement or alternative of performance under GAAP. 
  35 


Table of Contents
The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations to cash earnings from operations and
earnings per share from continuing operations to cash earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
CASH EARNINGS AND PER SHARE DATA  Reconciliation of Income from Continuing Operations to Cash Earnings from Continuing Operations   




















 
  
TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
Per Share
 
 
2009
 
  
Per Share
 

 
  
(In thousands, except per share data)
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
$
28,155
  
 
$
0.48
  
 
$
32,052
  
  
$
0.52
  

 Selected non-cash charges:
  



 



 



  




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
20,332
  
 
 
0.35
  
 
 
20,496
  
  
 
0.33
  

 Non-cash interest on convertible notes
  
 
4,210
  
 
 
0.08
  
 
 
3,961
  
  
 
0.06
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
5,306
  
 
 
0.09
  
 
 
4,754
  
  
 
0.08
  

 Loss on retirement of convertible bonds
  
 
1,996
  
 
 
0.03
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Adjustment to contingent earnouts
  
 
(1,449
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Non-cash restructuring charge
  
 
1,231
  
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Non-cash charges
  
$
31,626
  
 
$
0.55
  
 
$
29,211
  
  
$
0.47
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash earnings—continuing operations
  
$
59,781
  
 
$
1.03
  
 
$
61,263
  
  
$
0.99
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Operating Practice Groups  Financial Services   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 
  
(In thousands, except percentages)
 

 Revenue
  




 Same-unit
  
$
366,548
  
 
$
377,341
  
 
$
(10,793
) 
 
 
(2.9
)% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
13,582
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
13,582
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
 
380,130
  
 
 
377,341
  
 
 
2,789
  
 
 
0.7
% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
326,412
  
 
 
326,515
  
 
 
(103
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin
  
$
53,718
  
 
$
50,826
  
 
$
2,892
  
 
 
5.7
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin percent
  
 
14.1
% 
 
 
13.5
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 The decrease in same-unit revenue was primarily the result of a decrease in aggregate hours charged to clients. Same-unit
aggregate hours charged to clients declined approximately 7% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to year ended December 31, 2009, which was partially offset by a 3% increase in effective rates realized for services provided in
the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the comparable period in 2009. The decline in hours was due to decreased client demand as well as by improved engagement efficiencies. The improvement in rates realized for services provided was due to a
modest increase in rates as well as improved engagement efficiencies. Revenue from acquired businesses was a result of the acquisition of Goldstein Lewin, which occurred on January 1, 2010 and to a lesser extent the acquisition of KRMT, which
occurred on November 1, 2010.  CBIZ provides a range of services to affiliated CPA firms under joint referral and ASAs. Fees earned by
CBIZ under the ASAs are recorded as revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and were approximately $110.1 million and $108.2 million for years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, a majority of which is
related to services rendered to privately-held clients. The increase in ASA fees is primarily the result of the acquisitions. The largest components of operating expenses for the Financial Services group are personnel costs, occupancy costs, and
travel and related costs which represented 89.6% and 88.2% of total 
  36 


Table of Contents

operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Personnel costs increased $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period
in 2009, and represented 79.6% and 78.4% of total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase was attributable to a $9.0 million increase associated with the acquisitions of Goldstein Lewin and
KRMT, offset by a reduction in same-unit personnel cost of $5.1 million. The $5.1 million reduction in same-unit personnel costs was associated mainly with current year staff reductions at those units that experienced reduced client demand and
offset higher overall incentive compensation costs. Personnel costs represented 68.4% and 67.8% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Occupancy costs are relatively fixed in nature and were $23.7 million for
the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $24.0 million in the same period in the prior year; these represented 6.2% and 6.4% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Travel and related costs were $8.7
million and $8.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and increased slightly to 2.3% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 2.1% of revenue for the comparable period of 2009. 
Gross margin percentage improved to 14.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 13.5% for the same period in 2009. The improvement in
gross margin percentage was attributable to a decrease in same-unit personnel costs, lower bad debt expense, decreased controllable spending from cost control initiatives and lower depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in bad debt expense was due to an overall improvement in general economic conditions in 2010 compared to 2009 which included increased expense associated with
specific client receivables  Employee Services   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 
  
(In thousands, except percentages)
 

 Revenue
  




 Same-unit
  
$
167,573
  
 
$
170,846
  
 
$
(3,273
) 
 
 
(1.9
)% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
6,524
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6,524
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
 
174,097
  
 
 
170,846
  
 
 
3,251
  
 
 
1.9
% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
144,552
  
 
 
141,710
  
 
 
2,842
  
 
 
2.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin
  
$
29,545
  
 
$
29,136
  
 
$
409
  
 
 
1.4
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin percent
  
 
17.0
% 
 
 
17.1
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 The decrease in same-unit revenue was primarily attributable to declines in the Company’s specialty life insurance,
employee benefits and property and casualty businesses, offset in part by increases in the retirement plan advisory and individual wealth management and human capital advisory businesses. The Company’s specialty life insurance revenues
decreased approximately $3.2 million from prior year levels due to fewer policy placements; the employee benefits decreased approximately $2.7 million due to client workforce downsizing; and the property and casualty revenues declined $2.1 million
due to soft market conditions in pricing. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase of approximately $2.6 million in the retirement advisory and individual wealth management business due to higher asset values resulting largely from
favorable market performance, as well as an increase in human capital advisory revenues of approximately $1.5 million due to an increase in demand for recruiting and other outsourced human resource services. The growth in revenue from acquired
businesses was provided by NBA, an employee benefits company in Utah that was acquired in the first quarter of 2010, and Benexx, a retirement plan business in Maryland that was acquired in the third quarter of 2010. 
The largest components of operating expenses for the Employee Services group are personnel costs, including commissions paid to third party brokers, and
occupancy costs, representing 83.2% and 83.8% of total operating 
  37 


Table of Contents

expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excluding the costs related to the acquired businesses of $4.1 million, personnel costs decreased approximately $3.1
million, primarily as a result of less commissions paid to third party brokers related to a decline in specialty life insurance sales, and a decrease in commissions paid to internal brokers due to the decline in same-unit employee benefits and
property and casualty revenues. Personnel costs represented 63.3% and 63.9% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Occupancy costs are relatively fixed in nature and were $9.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, excluding the costs related to the acquired businesses of $0.4 million.  The slight decrease in gross margin
percent was primarily attributable to two offsetting factors. The shortfall in revenue at the specialty life insurance operation, which typically functions at a high margin, had a negative impact even though corresponding variable external broker
commissions were proportionally lower. This was offset, in large part, by an increase from retirement advisory and individual wealth management revenues, as well as human capital advisory revenues, as mentioned above. Asset based and investment
revenues do not have related direct costs, and human capital advisory revenues have a more fixed cost structure; therefore, growth in those revenues has a favorable impact on gross margin.  Medical Management Professionals   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 
  
(In thousands, except percentages)
 

 Revenue
  




 Same-unit
  
$
148,425
  
 
$
160,632
  
 
$
(12,207
) 
 
 
(7.6
)% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
 
148,425
  
 
 
160,632
  
 
 
(12,207
) 
 
 
(7.6
)% 

 Operating expense
  
 
131,897
  
 
 
139,763
  
 
 
(7,866
) 
 
 
(5.6
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin
  
$
16,528
  
 
$
20,869
  
 
$
(4,341
) 
 
 
(20.8
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin percent
  
 
11.1
% 
 
 
13.0
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 Same-unit revenue consists of revenue from existing clients and net new business sold. Same-unit revenue decreased 7.6%
for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the comparable period in 2009. Approximately 65% of the decrease is attributable to client terminations, net of new business sold, with the remaining 35% attributable to decreased revenues from
existing clients. The decline in revenue from client terminations was attributable to many reasons including: physician groups losing their hospital contracts, changes in group ownership, hospital consolidations and increased competitive pressures.
The decline in revenue from existing clients can be attributed to several factors including: decreases in the number of procedures processed, decreases in pricing and reimbursement rates and a change in the mix of procedures resulting in a decrease
in the average revenue per procedure.  The largest components of operating expenses for MMP are personnel costs, professional service fees
(primarily fees related to outside services for off-shore and electronic claims processing), occupancy costs and office expenses (primarily postage related to the Company’s statement mailing services), representing 86.3% and 87.0% of total
operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Personnel costs decreased $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and decreased as a percentage of revenue to 56.2% compared to 56.5% for the
comparable period in 2009. The reduction in personnel costs was partially offset by an increase in professional service fees of $0.8 million. In response to the decline in revenue, MMP has reduced headcount and related personnel costs in billing
operations through process improvements and labor 
  38 


Table of Contents

saving technologies. Office expenses decreased $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, but were 7.9% of revenue for both periods. Facilities
costs decreased $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, but increased as a percentage of revenue to 6.9% versus 6.5% in the comparable period in 2009.  The decrease in gross margin is the result of continued pricing and reimbursement pressure as discussed previously.  National Practices   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
$Change
 
 
%Change
 

 
  
(In thousands, except percentages)
 

 Revenue
  




 Same-unit
  
$
27,749
  
 
$
27,968
  
 
$
(219
) 
 
 
(0.8
)% 

 Acquired businesses
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 




 Divested operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total revenue
  
 
27,749
  
 
 
27,968
  
 
 
(219
) 
 
 
(0.8
)% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
25,794
  
 
 
25,002
  
 
 
792
  
 
 
3.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin
  
$
1,955
  
 
$
2,966
  
 
$
(1,011
) 
 
 
(34.1
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross margin percent
  
 
7.0
% 
 
 
10.6
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 The National Practices group is primarily comprised of a cost-plus contract with CBIZ’s largest client (Edward
Jones), healthcare consulting, and the Company’s mergers and acquisition business. Revenues from the Edward Jones business account for approximately two-thirds of the National Practice group’s revenue, with the healthcare consulting and
mergers and acquisitions accounting for the remaining revenue. The decrease in revenue was attributable to a decrease of approximately $1.1 million in the healthcare consulting business and approximately $0.4 million in the mergers and acquisitions
business, offset by an increase in revenue of approximately $1.3 million in services provided to Edward Jones. The decrease in healthcare consulting was primarily the result of a decrease in the medical audit services line of business which provides
services to healthcare providers to ensure they are correctly applying for and receiving Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. The decrease in revenue related to CBIZ’s mergers and acquisition business was due to less success fees being earned
as a result of fewer transactions being closed. The increase in the Edward Jones revenue was primarily a result of additional services provided under the contract.  The largest components of operating expenses for the National practices group are personnel costs, occupancy costs and travel and related costs, representing 94.8% and 93.8% of operating expenses for the
years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Personnel expenses increased $1.0 million and were 85.1% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 80.8% of revenue for the comparable period in 2009. An increase of
approximately $1.2 million in personnel cost was necessary to support revenue growth from services provided to Edward Jones as well as annual merit increases. This was offset by a $0.2 million decrease in personnel costs related to the healthcare
consulting business as a result of the decline in revenue and demand for services. Travel and related costs were consistent in both periods and were $0.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Occupancy costs are relatively
fixed in nature and were $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.  The decrease in gross margin percent was primarily
due to less success fees earned by the mergers and acquisitions business as well as the impact of the decline in healthcare consulting revenue during the year ended December 31, 2010 versus 2009. Transactions completed by the mergers and
acquisitions business generally 
  39 


Table of Contents

results in a large amount of revenue with modest incremental costs. Fewer success fees have a disproportionate negative impact on gross margin percent. The decline in healthcare revenue resulted
in a decrease in overall healthcare related operating expenses, but not to the extent to preserve gross margin.  Financial Condition
 Total assets were $812.4 million at December 31, 2011, an increase of $56.1 million versus December 31, 2010. Current assets of
$292.3 million exceeded current liabilities of $226.2 million by $66.1 million.  Cash and cash equivalents increased by $0.9 million to $1.6
million at December 31, 2011 from $0.7 million at December 31, 2010. Restricted cash was $19.8 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $0.4 million from $20.2 million at December 31, 2010. Restricted cash represents those
funds held in connection with CBIZ’s Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) regulated businesses and funds held in connection with the pass through of insurance premiums to various carriers. Cash and restricted cash
fluctuate during the year based on the timing of cash receipts and related payments.  Accounts receivable, net, were $137.1 million at
December 31, 2011, a decrease of $1.0 million from December 31, 2010, and days sales outstanding (“DSO”) from continuing operations were 71 days and 72 days at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. DSO
represents accounts receivable (before the allowance for doubtful accounts) and unbilled revenue (net of realization adjustments) at the end of the period, divided by trailing twelve months daily revenue. CBIZ provides DSO data because such data is
commonly used as a performance measure by analysts and investors and as a measure of the Company’s ability to collect on receivables in a timely manner.  Income taxes refundable were $3.9 million and $3.7 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The balances in income taxes refundable were primarily due to CBIZ making estimated tax
payments that exceeded the tax liabilities CBIZ expected to incur with its 2011 and 2010 income tax filings.  Deferred income taxes —
current increased by $3.9 million to $8.1 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $4.2 million at December 31, 2010. The increase in the net deferred current asset was primarily due to the transfer of certain deferred tax liabilities from
deferred income taxes — current to income taxes payable — current as a result of the redemption of the Company’s 2006 Notes during the second quarter of 2011.  Other current assets were $11.4 million and $12.0 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Other current assets are primarily comprised of prepaid assets, rent deposits,
and notes receivable. Balances may fluctuate during the year based upon the timing of cash payments, amortization of prepaid expenses, and activity related to notes receivable.  Funds held for clients (current and non-current) and client fund obligations primarily relate to CBIZ’s payroll services business. The balances in these accounts fluctuate with the timing of cash
receipts and the related cash payments. Client fund obligations can differ from funds held for clients due to changes in the market value of the underlying investments. The nature of these accounts is further described in Note 1 of the accompanying
consolidated financial statements.  Property and equipment, net, decreased by $2.1 million to $21.8 million at December 31, 2011 from
$23.9 million at December 31, 2010. The decrease is primarily the result of depreciation and amortization expense of $6.6 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $4.5 million. CBIZ’s property and equipment is primarily
comprised of software, hardware, furniture and leasehold improvements.  Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, increased by $31.9 million
to $458.3 at December 31, 2011 from $426.4 at December 31, 2010. This increase is comprised of $35.6 million and $12.7 million of net additions to goodwill and intangible assets, respectively, offset by $13.8 million of amortization
expense and $2.6 million of 
  40 


Table of Contents

divested goodwill and intangible assets for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011. The $48.3 million increase in goodwill and other intangible assets consisted of $29.5 million due to
2011 acquisitions and $18.8 million of additional purchase price earned by previous acquisitions.  Assets of the deferred compensation plan
represent participant deferral accounts and are directly offset by deferred compensation plan obligations. Assets of the deferred compensation plan were $33.6 million and $33.4 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively. The increase in assets of the deferred compensation plan of $0.2 million consisted of net participant contributions of $0.6 million, partially offset by a decrease in the fair value of the investments of $0.4 million for the twelve
months ended December 31, 2011. The plan is described in further detail in Note 13 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  The accounts payable balances of $35.0 million and $30.8 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, reflect amounts due to suppliers and vendors. Balances fluctuate during
the year based on the timing of cash payments. Accrued personnel costs were $33.7 million and $33.0 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and represent amounts due for payroll, payroll taxes, employee benefits
and incentive compensation. Balances fluctuate during the year based on the timing of payments and adjustments to the estimate of incentive compensation costs.  Notes payable — current increased by $3.0 million to $14.0 million at December 31, 2011 from $11.0 million at December 31, 2010. Notes payable balances and activity are primarily
attributable to contingent proceeds earned by previously acquired businesses. During the year ended December 31, 2011, additions to notes payable were comprised of $13.6 million from purchase price adjustments relating to prior acquisitions and
$0.4 million due to purchase price adjustments to 2011 acquisitions. These additions were partially offset by payments on the notes of approximately $11.0 million.  Other liabilities (current and non-current) increased by $4.4 million to $54.9 million at December 31, 2011 from $50.5 million at December 31, 2010. The increase is primarily attributable to the
addition of approximately $13.4 million of estimated contingent purchase price liabilities and $0.7 million of guaranteed purchase price related to 2011 business acquisitions, a $0.8 million increase in unearned revenue, a $0.7 million fair value
adjustment related to the swap agreement, a $0.2 million net present value adjustment to the estimated contingent purchase price liabilities, and a $0.2 million increase in the legal reserve. These increases were partially offset by the recording of
$4.9 million of deferred purchase price on the sale of the Company’s individual wealth management business that was effective January 1, 2011, a decrease of $0.7 million related to the self-funded health insurance plan, a decrease of $0.5
million in accrued interest payable on the Company’s convertible notes, and adjustments of $3.5 million and payments of $2.1 million related to the estimated contingent purchase price liabilities related to previously acquired businesses.
 CBIZ’s convertible notes are carried at face value less unamortized discount. The $36.0 million decrease in the carrying value of the
current and non-current convertible notes at December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 represents the repurchase of $39.3 million of the 2006 Notes, partially offset by the discount amortization on the 2006 Notes and 2010 Convertible
Senior Subordinated Notes (“2010 Notes”) of $0.8 million and $2.5 million, respectively, which is recognized as non-cash interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations. The convertible notes are further disclosed in Note 5
of the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  Bank debt for amounts due on CBIZ’s credit facility increased $26.1 million to
$145.0 million at December 31, 2011 from $118.9 million at December 31, 2010. This increase was primarily attributable to the repurchase of $39.3 million of the 2006 Notes, $29.3 million in payments for current year acquisitions and
contingent payments on prior acquisitions, and expenditures of $9.5 million to repurchase 1.4 million shares of CBIZ common stock. These increases were partially offset by cash earned from operating activities. 
Income taxes payable — non-current at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 was $4.4 million and $5.3 million, respectively, and
represents the accrual for uncertain tax positions. The decrease of $0.9 million 
  41 


Table of Contents

primarily relates to the release of estimated tax reserves due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. Income taxes are further discussed in Note 7 of the accompanying consolidated
financial statements.  Stockholders’ equity increased by $30.5 million to $260.2 million at December 31, 2011 from $229.7 million at
December 31, 2010. The increase in stockholders’ equity was primarily attributable to net income of $28.0 million, CBIZ’s stock award programs which contributed $6.8 million, the issuance of $5.0 million in common shares related to
business acquisitions, and adjustments of $0.2 million to accumulated other comprehensive loss to adjust the fair value of CBIZ’s investments in ARS and corporate and municipal bonds. These increases were partially offset by share repurchase
activity of approximately 1.4 million shares at a cost of $9.5 million, which includes $0.6 million related to shares repurchased in conjunction with the settlement of restricted stock transactions. 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
CBIZ’s principal source of net operating cash is derived from the collection of fees and commissions for professional services and products rendered
to its clients. CBIZ supplements net operating cash with a $275 million unsecured credit facility and $130 million in 2010 Notes.  CBIZ
maintains a $275 million unsecured credit facility with Bank of America as agent bank for a group of seven participating banks. The credit facility also has a letter of credit sub-facility. On April 11, 2011, the credit facility was amended to
extend the maturity date one year to June 2015, reduce interest on outstanding balances, reduce commitment fees on the unused borrowing limit, and adjust the leverage ratio limits to provide CBIZ with more flexibility. At December 31, 2011,
CBIZ had $145.0 million outstanding under its credit facility and had letters of credit and performance guarantees totaling $7.7 million. Available funds under the credit facility, based on the terms of the commitment, were approximately $53.5
million at December 31, 2011. Management believes that cash generated from operations, combined with the available funds from the credit facility, provides CBIZ the financial resources needed to meet business requirements for the foreseeable
future, including capital expenditures and working capital requirements.  The credit facility also allows for the allocation of funds for
strategic initiatives, including acquisitions and the repurchase of CBIZ common stock. Under the credit facility, CBIZ is required to meet certain financial covenants with respect to (i) minimum net worth; (ii) maximum total and senior
leverage ratios; and (iii) a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. CBIZ believes it is in compliance with its covenants as of December 31, 2011. CBIZ’s ability to service its debt and to fund strategic initiatives will depend upon its
ability to generate cash in the future.  The 2010 Notes were issued to qualified institutional buyers on September 27, 2010 and mature on
October 1, 2015. The holders of the 2010 Notes may convert their 2010 Notes any time on or after July 31, 2015. Concurrent with the closing of the 2010 Notes, a portion of the proceeds was used to repurchase $60 million of the $100 million
outstanding 2006 Notes through privately negotiated transactions. During 2011, an additional $39.3 million of the 2006 Notes were repurchased, which leaves a remaining balance of $750,000 of 2006 Notes outstanding at December 31, 2011. See Note
8 to the accompanying financial statements for further discussion of CBIZ’s debt instruments.  In addition to the debt instruments
previously mentioned, CBIZ may obtain, at a future date, additional funding by offering equity securities or debt through public or private markets. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Sources and Uses of Cash  The following table summarizes cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Total cash provided by (used in):
  



 



 




 Operating activities
  
$
58,269
  
 
$
53,327
  
 
$
49,766
  

 Investing activities
  
 
(55,572
) 
 
 
(30,113
) 
 
 
(7,792
) 

 Financing activities
  
 
(1,808
) 
 
 
(29,668
) 
 
 
(42,218
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
889
  
 
$
(6,454
) 
 
$
(244
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Operating Activities  Cash flows from operating activities represent net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. CBIZ typically experiences a net use of cash from operations during the
first quarter of its fiscal year, as accounts receivable balances grow in response to the seasonal increase in first quarter revenue generated by the Financial Services practice group (primarily for accounting and tax services). This net use of cash
is followed by strong operating cash flow during the second and third quarters, as a significant amount of revenue generated by the Financial Services practice group during the first four months of the year are billed and collected in subsequent
quarters.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $58.3 million and primarily consisted
of net income of $28.0 million, non-cash adjustments to net income of $31.4 million, and net changes in working capital of $1.8 million. Partially offsetting these sources of cash were a net gain on the sale of operations and discontinued operations
transactions totaling $2.3 million. The non-cash adjustments to net income primarily consist of depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets including client lists and non-compete agreements, amortization of the discount on
convertible notes and deferred financing fees, stock-based compensation expense, deferred income tax expense, provision for bad debts, and adjustments to contingent purchase price liabilities. Working capital resulted in a net source of cash
primarily from an increase in accounts payable as a result of continued vendor management. Cash used by discontinued operations was $0.6 million.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, net cash provided by operating activities was $53.3 million and primarily consisted of net income of $24.5 million, non-cash adjustments to net income of
$34.3 million, offset by a net loss on the discontinued operations transactions and sale of operations totaling $3.2 million. Non-cash adjustments to net income consist primarily of depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangibles assets
including client lists and non-compete agreements, amortization of the discount on convertible notes and deferred financing fees, stock-based compensation expense, deferred income tax expense, provision for bad debts, loss on redemption of 2006
Notes, and adjustments to contingent purchase price liabilities. These non-cash adjustments to net income were partially offset by negative changes in working capital of $6.1 million. Working capital resulted in a use of cash primarily from slower
collections on accounts receivable as evidenced by the increase in DSO to 72 days at December 31, 2010 from 66 days at December 31, 2009. This use of working capital was partially offset by sources of cash due to active vendor management,
an increase in compensation incentive accruals, and an increase in restructuring charges related to the Florida office consolidation. Cash used by discontinued operations was $2.6 million.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was $49.8 million and primarily consisted of net income of $31.4 million and non-cash adjustments to net income of
$37.6 million, partially offset by negative changes in working capital of $19.9 million and net gains on the sale of operations and the discontinued operations transactions totaling $0.3 million. Non-cash items mainly consist of depreciation of
fixed assets, amortization of intangibles including client lists and non-compete agreements, amortization of the 
  43 


Table of Contents

discount on convertible notes and deferred financing fees, provision for bad debts, and stock-based compensation expense. Working capital resulted in a use of cash primarily from an increase in
accounts receivable as a result of significant acquisitions closed on December 31, 2008 (New York and Boston), the timing of payments on accounts payable, and the reduction in the compensation incentive accruals. These uses were partially
offset by the timing of tax payments and interest payments related to the credit facility. Cash provided by discontinued operations was $1.0 million.  Investing Activities  CBIZ’s investing activities typically result in a net use of
cash, and generally consist of: payments for business acquisitions and client lists, contingent payments associated with business acquired prior to 2009, purchases of capital equipment, net activity related to funds held for clients, and proceeds
received from sales of divestitures and discontinued operations. Capital expenditures consisted of investments in technology, leasehold improvements and purchases of furniture and equipment.  Investing uses of cash during the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily consisted of $27.5 million of net cash used for business acquisitions and contingent payments on prior acquisitions, net
activity related to funds held for clients of $24.9 million, and capital expenditures of $4.3 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by $1.0 million of proceeds from the sale of divested and discontinued operations. 
Investing uses of cash during the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily consisted of $49.4 million for business acquisitions and $2.7 million for
capital expenditures. These uses were partially offset by $13.9 million in net activity related to funds held for clients and $8.1 million in proceeds received from the sales of divested and discontinued operations and client lists. 
Investing uses of cash during the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily consisted of $20.2 million of net cash used towards business acquisitions
and $4.0 million for net capital expenditures. These uses of cash were partially offset by $15.2 million in net activity related to funds held for clients, $0.9 million in proceeds received from the sale of divested and discontinued operations and
$0.4 million in net activity on notes receivable.  Financing Activities  CBIZ’s financing cash flows typically consist of net borrowing and payment activity from the credit facility, the issuance and repayment of debt instruments, repurchases of CBIZ common stock, net
change in client fund obligations, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options.  Net cash used in financing activities during the year
ended December 31, 2011 included $39.3 million used to repay the 2006 Notes at par, $9.5 million used to repurchase shares of CBIZ common stock, $1.8 million in payments for contingent consideration included as part of the initial measurement
of prior business acquisitions, and $0.6 million in cash used to pay for debt issuance costs related to the amendment of the credit facility. These uses of cash were substantially offset by sources of cash which include $26.1 million in net proceeds
on the credit facility, net change of $22.4 million in client fund obligations as a result of timing of cash received and payments made, and $0.8 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including tax benefits. 
Net cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2010 include $60.0 million used to repurchase 2006 Notes at par, $86.2
million used to repurchase 13.4 million shares of CBIZ common stock, $6.6 million for debt issuance costs primarily related to the issuance of the 2010 Notes, net change of $13.9 million in client fund obligations as a result of timing of cash
received and payments made, and $3.0 million in payments for contingent consideration included as part of the initial measurement of 2009 business acquisitions. These uses were substantially offset by sources of cash which included $130.0 million in
proceeds from the issuance of the 2010 Notes, $8.9 million in net proceeds on the credit facility, and $1.3 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including the related tax benefits. 
  44 


Table of Contents
Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 included $15.0 million in
net payments on the credit facility, a net change of $15.4 million in client fund obligations as a result of timing of cash received and payments made, $13.3 million in cash used to repurchase 1.8 million shares of CBIZ common stock in the
current year and settle share repurchase activity from the prior year, partially offset by $1.8 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including the related tax benefits.  Obligations and Commitments  CBIZ’s aggregate amount of future obligations for the
next five years and thereafter is set forth below (in thousands):   
































 
 
Total
 
 
2012
 
 
2013
 
 
2014
 
 
2015
 
 
2016
 
 
Thereafter
 

 Convertible notes(1)
 
$
130,750
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
130,000
  
 
$
750
  
 
$
—
  

 Interest on convertible notes
 
 
25,460
  
 
 
6,362
  
 
 
6,362
  
 
 
6,362
  
 
 
6,362
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
—
  

 Credit facility(2)
 
 
145,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
145,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Notes payable(3)
 
 
14,734
  
 
 
13,986
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Contingent purchase price liabilities(4)
 
 
25,325
  
 
 
13,646
  
 
 
6,448
  
 
 
2,901
  
 
 
2,074
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
127
  

 Restructuring lease obligations(5)
 
 
14,226
  
 
 
8,100
  
 
 
1,592
  
 
 
1,201
  
 
 
1,239
  
 
 
1,135
  
 
 
959
  

 Non-cancelable operating lease obligations(5)
 
 
145,937
  
 
 
30,499
  
 
 
30,820
  
 
 
23,082
  
 
 
19,444
  
 
 
17,703
  
 
 
24,389
  

 Letters of credit in lieu of cash security deposits
 
 
2,516
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
250
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
1,387
  

 Performance guarantees for non-consolidated affiliates
 
 
5,173
  
 
 
5,173
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 License bonds and other letters of credit
 
 
1,578
  
 
 
1,337
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
510,699
  
 
$
79,103
  
 
$
45,866
  
 
$
34,171
  
 
$
304,134
  
 
$
20,563
  
 
$
26,862
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Represents $130 million par value of 2010 Notes which mature on October 1, 2015, and $750 thousand par value of 2006 Notes which mature on June 1, 2026. The
2006 Notes may be putable by the holders of the convertible notes on June 1, 2016 and can be redeemed by the Company at anytime.   


(2)
Interest on the credit facility is not included as the amount is not determinable due to the revolving nature of the credit facility and the variability of the related
interest rate.   


(3)
Represents contingent purchase price adjustments that were earned in 2011, but not yet paid, related to businesses CBIZ acquired prior to January 1, 2009.
  


(4)
Represents contingent earnout liability that is expected to be paid over the next six years to businesses CBIZ acquired on or after January 1, 2009.
  


(5)
Excludes cash expected to be received under subleases.  The above table does not reflect $4.0 million of unrecognized tax benefits, which the Company has recorded for uncertain tax positions as CBIZ is unable to determine a reasonably reliable estimate of the
timing of the future payments.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  CBIZ maintains ASA’s with independent CPA firms (as described more fully under “Business — Financial Services” and in Note 1 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements),
which qualify as variable interest entities. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not reflect the operations or accounts of variable interest entities as the impact is not material to the consolidated financial condition, results of
operations, or cash flows of CBIZ. 
  45 


Table of Contents
CBIZ provides guarantees of performance obligations for a CPA firm with which CBIZ maintains an ASA.
Potential obligations under the guarantees totaled $5.2 million and $3.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. CBIZ has recognized a liability for the fair value of the obligations undertaken in issuing these guarantees. The
liability is recorded as other current liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. CBIZ does not expect it will be required to make payments under these guarantees.  CBIZ provides letters of credit to landlords (lessors) of its leased premises in lieu of cash security deposits. Letters of credit totaled $2.5 million and $3.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. In addition, CBIZ provides license bonds to various state agencies to meet certain licensing requirements. The amount of license bonds outstanding was $1.6 million and $1.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 CBIZ has various agreements under which the Company may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Generally,
these indemnification clauses are included in contracts arising in the normal course of business under which the Company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations, warranties,
covenants or agreements, related to matters such as title to assets sold and certain tax matters. Payment by CBIZ under such indemnification clauses are generally conditioned upon the other party making a claim. Such claims are typically subject to
challenge by CBIZ and to dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular contract. Further, CBIZ’s obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or amount and, in some instances, CBIZ may have recourse against
third parties for certain payments made by CBIZ. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnification agreements due to the conditional nature of CBIZ’s obligations and the unique facts of
each particular agreement. Historically, CBIZ has not made any payments under these agreements that have been material individually or in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2011, CBIZ was not aware of any obligations arising under
indemnification agreements that would require material payments.  Interest Rate Risk Management 
CBIZ periodically uses interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk exposure. The interest rate swaps effectively mitigate CBIZ’s exposure to
interest rate risk, primarily through converting portions of the floating rate debt under the credit facility, to a fixed rate basis. These agreements involve the receipt or payment of floating rate amounts in exchange for fixed rate interest
payments over the life of the agreements without an exchange of the underlying principal amounts. At December 31, 2011, CBIZ had a total of $40.0 million notional amount of interest rate swaps, of which $25 million will expire in June 2014 and
the remaining $15 million will expire in June 2015. At December 31, 2010, CBIZ had interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $20 million which expired in January 2011. Management will continue to evaluate the potential use of interest rate
swaps as it deems appropriate under certain operating and market conditions. CBIZ does not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. CBIZ carries $130.0 million in 2010 Notes bearing a fixed interest rate of 4.875%. The 2010 Notes mature on October 1, 2015 and may not be converted before July 31, 2015. CBIZ believes the fixed
nature of these borrowings mitigate its interest rate risk.  In connection with payroll services provided to clients, CBIZ collects funds from
its clients’ accounts in advance of paying these client obligations. These funds held for clients are segregated and invested in accordance with the Company’s investment policy, which requires all investments carry an investment grade
rating at the time of initial investment. The interest income on these investments mitigates the interest rate risk for the borrowing costs of CBIZ’s credit facility, as the rates on both the investments and the outstanding borrowings against
the credit facility are based on market conditions.  Critical Accounting Policies 
Significant accounting policies are described more fully in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with GAAP requires the Company to make 
  46 


Table of Contents

estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in its financial statements. CBIZ’s management bases its estimates on historical experience and assumptions
that it believes are reasonable under the related facts and circumstances. The application of these critical accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions for future uncertainties. Accordingly, actual results could
differ significantly from these estimates. The policies discussed below address the most critical accounting policies which are the most important to the portrayal of CBIZ’s financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective and
complex judgments.  Revenue Recognition and Valuation of Unbilled Revenues  Revenue is recognized only when all of the following are present: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the fee to the client is fixed or
determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Contract terms are typically contained in a signed agreement with the client (or when applicable, other third parties) which generally defines the scope of services to be provided, pricing of
services, and payment terms generally ranging from invoice date to 90 days after invoice date. Billing may occur prior to, during, or upon completion of the service. CBIZ typically does not have acceptance provisions or right of refund arrangements
included in these agreements. Contract terms vary depending on the scope of service provided, the deliverables, and the complexity of the engagement. CBIZ offers a vast array of products and business services to its clients. Those services are
delivered through four practice groups. A description of revenue recognition, as it relates to those groups, is provided in more detail in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
Valuation of Accounts Receivable and Notes Receivable  Management determines the valuation of accounts receivable (including unbilled accounts receivable) and notes receivable, and the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts based on estimates of
losses related to the respective receivable balance. Management analyzes historical bad debts, client credit-worthiness, the age of accounts receivable and current economic trends and conditions when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for
doubtful accounts and the collectability of notes receivable. Significant management judgments and estimates must be made and used in connection with establishing the allowance for doubtful accounts for each accounting period. Material differences
may result if facts and circumstances change in relation to the original estimation.  Valuation of Goodwill 
CBIZ utilizes the acquisition method of accounting for all business combinations. Intangible assets, other than goodwill, which include client lists and
non-compete agreements, are amortized over their expected period of benefit, not to exceed ten years. In accordance with GAAP, goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each year. Impairment
testing may be performed between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, CBIZ early adopted the principles as prescribed in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-08
“Intangibles — Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (“ASU 2011-08”) in order to complete its goodwill impairment tests. In accordance with ASU 2011-08, CBIZ based its goodwill impairment testing
on a qualitative assessment for each of its reporting units that carried a goodwill balance. The qualitative assessment included an in-depth analysis of many factors, including general economic conditions, industry and market conditions, a broad
scope of financial factors, the Company’s weighted average cost of capital, changes in management and key personnel, the Company’s price of its common stock, as well as other drivers of a fair value analysis. As part of the qualitative
analysis, many estimates and assumptions were made that related to future economic trends, client behaviors, and other factors, all of which are beyond the control of management. As a result of the

  47 


Table of Contents

Company’s qualitative assessment, it was concluded that it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of each of its reporting units was greater than its carrying value. 
As part of the goodwill impairment testing that was performed in the fourth quarter of 2010, it was noted that two reporting units, CBIZ Payroll and MMP,
were tested in detail applying Step One procedures due to a decline in the performance of each reporting unit. The Step One procedures utilized a combination of the discounted cash flow method (income approach) and the market comparable method
(market approach). As a result of the Step One procedures in the fourth quarter of 2010, it was concluded that these two reporting units were not impaired and the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by at least 25%. During
the goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2011, these two reporting units were closely analyzed. CBIZ Payroll financial results have improved over the past year and are expected to continue to improve during 2012 and beyond, thus CBIZ
Payroll is not considered to be at risk for impairment. However, MMP has continued to face economic pressures. Several cost cutting measures were put into place during the year ended December 31, 2011 to mitigate the pricing and performance
pressures. Taking into consideration the Company’s efforts to control costs and obtain market share, as well as the other qualitative factors that were described above as part of the fourth quarter 2011 goodwill impairment testing procedures,
the Company has concluded that the fair value of MMP is more-likely-than-not to be greater than its carrying value. However, significant deterioration in the operating results of the MMP reporting unit during 2012 could result in possible impairment
of the reporting unit’s goodwill balance, which was $59.8 million at December 31, 2011.  Loss Contingencies 
Loss contingencies, including litigation claims, are recorded as liabilities when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
loss is reasonably estimable. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time periods. Estimating probable losses requires analysis that often depends on judgment about potential actions by third parties. 
Incentive Compensation  Determining the
amount of expense to recognize for incentive compensation at interim and annual reporting dates involves management judgment. Expenses accrued for incentive compensation are based upon expected financial results for the year, and the ultimate
determination of incentive compensation is unable to be made until after year-end results are finalized. Thus, amounts accrued are subject to change in future interim periods if actual future financial results are higher or lower than expected. In
arriving at the amount of expense to recognize, management believes it makes reasonable judgments using all significant information available. 
Income Taxes  Determining the
consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves management judgment. Management estimates an annual effective tax rate (which takes into consideration expected full-year
results), which is applied to the Company’s quarterly operating results to determine the provision for income tax expense. In the event there is a significant, unusual or infrequent item recognized in the quarterly operating results, the tax
attributable to that item is recorded in the interim period in which it occurs. In addition, reserves are established for uncertain tax positions and contingencies. See Note 1 and Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for
further information.  Circumstances that could cause CBIZ’s estimates of effective income tax rates to change include the impact of
information that subsequently becomes available as CBIZ prepares its corporate income tax returns; the level of actual pre-tax income; revisions to tax positions taken as a result of further analysis and consultation; the receipt and expected
utilization of federal and state income tax credits; and changes mandated as a result of audits by taxing authorities. Management believes it makes reasonable judgments using all significant information available when estimating income taxes.

  48 


Table of Contents
Other Significant Policies  Other significant accounting policies, not involving the same level of management judgment and uncertainty as those discussed above, are also critical in understanding the consolidated financial
statements. Those policies are described in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  New Accounting Pronouncements
 In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”)
No. 2011-08 (“ASU2011-08”) “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment”, which provides an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to
perform the two-step test for goodwill impairment. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the quantitative two-step
impairment test is required; otherwise, no further testing is necessary. The more likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011
with early adoption permitted. CBIZ adopted the provisions of ASU 2011-08 for its annual impairment tests during the fourth quarter of 2011. 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05 (“ASU 2011-05”) “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive
Income”, which states that comprehensive income should be presented in either one or two consecutive financial statements. Companies will have the option to either present other comprehensive income on the same statement as net income, or as a
separate statement that immediately follows the statement of net income. ASU 2011-05 is effective for the first reporting period after December 15, 2011, and should be applied retrospectively. Currently, other comprehensive income is presented
in the notes to CBIZ’s consolidated financial statements and the adoption of ASU 2011-05 will result in CBIZ presenting other comprehensive income on the consolidated statements of operations. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04 (“ASU 2011-04”) “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Amendments to Achieve Common fair
Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.” ASU 2011-04 provides a consistent definition of fair value to ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are
similar between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-04 does not extend the use of fair value, but rather provides additional disclosure guidance about the application of fair value in those areas where fair value is
already required or permitted, especially for Level 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for the first reporting period after December 15, 2011. The amendments of this ASU will be applied prospectively, and early adoption is not
permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2011-04, but currently believes there will be no significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  CBIZ’s floating rate debt under its credit facility exposes the Company to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk results when the maturity or repricing intervals of interest-earning assets and
interest-bearing liabilities are different. A change in the Federal Funds Rate, or the reference rate set by Bank of America, N.A., would affect the rate at which CBIZ could borrow funds under its credit facility. CBIZ’s balance outstanding
under its credit facility at December 31, 2011 was $145.0 million. If market rates were to increase or decrease 100 basis points from the levels at December 31, 2011, interest expense would increase or decrease approximately $1.1 million
annually.  CBIZ does not engage in trading market risk sensitive instruments. CBIZ periodically uses interest rate swaps to manage interest
rate risk exposure. The interest rate swaps effectively modify the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk, primarily through converting portions of its floating rate debt under the credit facility to a fixed rate basis. These agreements
involve the receipt or payment of floating rate amounts in exchange for fixed rate 
  49 


Table of Contents

interest payments over the life of the agreements without an exchange of the underlying principal amounts. At December 31, 2011, CBIZ had a total of $40.0 million notional amount of interest
rate swaps, of which $25 million will expire in June 2014 and the remaining $15 million will expire in June 2015. Management will continue to evaluate the potential use of interest rate swaps as it deems appropriate under certain operating and
market conditions. See Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding interest rate swaps.  In
connection with CBIZ’s payroll business, funds held for clients are segregated and invested in short-term investments, such as corporate and municipal bonds. In accordance with the Company’s investment policy, all investments carry an
investment grade rating at the time of the initial investment. At each respective balance sheet date, these investments are adjusted to fair value with fair value adjustments being recorded to other comprehensive income or loss for the respective
period. If an adjustment is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired due to credit loss, then the adjustment is recorded to “Other income (expense), net” on the consolidated statements of operations. See Notes 5 and 6 to the
accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding these investments and the related fair value assessments.  
Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  The Financial Statements, together with the notes
thereto and the report of KPMG LLC dated March 15, 2012 thereon, and the Supplementary Data required hereunder, are included in this Annual Report as set forth in Item 15(a) hereof and are incorporated herein by reference. 
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
 None.  
Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures.  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
Management has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (“Disclosure Controls”) as of the end of the
period covered by this report. This evaluation (“Controls Evaluation”) was done with the participation of CBIZ’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”). Disclosure Controls
are controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that CBIZ files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure Controls include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by CBIZ in the reports that it files under the Exchange Act is
accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls  Management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, does not expect that its Disclosure Controls or its internal control over financial reporting (“Internal Controls”) will prevent all error
and all fraud. Although CBIZ’s Disclosure Controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objective, a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance
that the objectives of a control system are met. Further, any control system reflects limitations on resources, and the benefits of a control system must be considered relative to its costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control
systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within CBIZ have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be
faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, 
  50 


Table of Contents

controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of a control. A design of a control system is also based upon
certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes
in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. 
Conclusions  Based upon the Controls
Evaluation, the Company’s CEO and CFO have concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, CBIZ’s Disclosure Controls are effective at the reasonable assurance level described above. 
There were no changes in the Company’s Internal Controls that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, CBIZ’s Internal Controls.  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting.  The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under the supervision of management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, CBIZ conducted an evaluation of its internal
control over financial reporting based on the framework provided in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO Framework). Based on this evaluation,
the Company’s management has concluded that CBIZ’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.  CBIZ’s independent auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of CBIZ’s internal control over financial reporting which
appears in Item 8 of this Annual Report.  Item 9B.    Other Information.
 None. 
  51 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.  Information with respect to this item not included below is incorporated by reference from CBIZ’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting to be filed with the SEC no
later than 120 days after the end of CBIZ’s fiscal year.  The following table sets forth certain information regarding the directors,
executive officers and certain key employees of CBIZ. Each executive officer and director of CBIZ named in the following table has been elected to serve until his successor is duly appointed or elected or until his earlier removal or resignation
from office. No arrangement or understanding exists between any executive officer of CBIZ and any other person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer.   










 Name
  
 Age
 
  
 Position(s)

 Executive Officers and Directors:
  



  


 Steven L. Gerard(1)
  
 
66
  
  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 Rick L. Burdick(1)
  
 
60
  
  
Lead Director and Vice Chairman

 Michael H. DeGroote
  
 
51
  
  
Director

 Joseph S. DiMartino(3)(4)
  
 
68
  
  
Director

 Richard C. Rochon(2)(3)(4)
  
 
54
  
  
Director

 Todd Slotkin(2)(3)(4)
  
 
58
  
  
Director

 Donald V. Weir(2)(3)
  
 
70
  
  
Director

 Benaree Pratt Wiley(3)(4)
  
 
65
  
  
Director

 Jerome P. Grisko, Jr.(1)
  
 
50
  
  
President and Chief Operating Officer

 Ware H. Grove
  
 
61
  
  
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 Michael W. Gleespen
  
 
53
  
  
Secretary and General Counsel

 Other Key Employees:
  



  


 David Sibits
  
 
60
  
  
President, Financial Services

 Robert A. O’Byrne
  
 
55
  
  
President, Employee Services

 G. Darrell Hulsey
  
 
42
  
  
President, MMP

 Michael P. Kouzelos
  
 
43
  
  
Senior Vice President, Strategic Initiatives

 George A. Dufour
  
 
65
  
  
Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer

 Mark M. Waxman
  
 
55
  
  
Senior Vice President of Marketing

 Teresa E. Bur
  
 
47
  
  
Senior Vice President, Human Resources

 Kelly J. Marek
  
 
41
  
  
Treasurer

 Robert A. Bosak
  
 
44
  
  
Controller
  


(1)
Member of Management Executive Committee   


(2)
Member of Audit Committee   


(3)
Member of Nominating & Governance Committee   


(4)
Member of Compensation Committee  Executive
Officers and Directors:  Steven L. Gerard was elected by the Board to serve as its Chairman in October, 2002. He was appointed Chief
Executive Officer and Director in October, 2000. Mr. Gerard was Chairman and CEO of Great Point Capital, Inc., a provider of operational and advisory services from 1997 to October 2000. From 1991 to 1997, he was Chairman and CEO of Triangle
Wire & Cable, Inc. and its successor Ocean View Capital, Inc. Mr. Gerard’s prior experience includes 16 years with Citibank, N.A. in various senior corporate finance and banking positions.

  52 


Table of Contents

Further, Mr. Gerard served seven years with the American Stock Exchange, where he last served as Vice President of the Securities Division. Mr. Gerard also serves on the Boards of
Directors of Lennar Corporation and Joy Global, Inc.  Rick L. Burdick has served as a Director of CBIZ since October 1997, when he was
elected as an independent director. On May 17, 2007, Mr. Burdick was elected by the Board to be its Lead Director, a non-officer position. Previously, in October 2002, he was elected by the Board as Vice Chairman, a non-officer position.
Mr. Burdick has been a partner at the law firm of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP since April 1988. Mr. Burdick serves on the Board of Directors of AutoNation, Inc.  Michael H. DeGroote, son of CBIZ, Inc. founder Michael G. DeGroote, was appointed a Director of CBIZ in November, 2006. Mr. DeGroote currently serves as President of Westbury International, a
full-service real estate development company, specializing in commercial/industrial land, residential development and property management. Prior to joining Westbury, Mr. DeGroote was Vice President of MGD Holdings and previously held a
management position with Cooper Corporation. Mr. DeGroote sits on the Board of Directors of Progressive Waste Solutions Ltd. He also serves on the Board of Governors of McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. 
Joseph S. DiMartino has served as a Director of CBIZ since November 1997, when he was elected as an independent director. Mr. DiMartino has
been Chairman of the Board of the Dreyfus Family of Funds since January 1995. Mr. DiMartino served as President, Chief Operating Officer and Director of The Dreyfus Corporation from October 1982 until December 1994 and also served as a director
of Mellon Bank Corporation. Mr. DiMartino formerly served on the Boards of SunAir Services, Inc., LEVCOR International, Inc., The Newark Group and the Muscular Dystrophy Association within the last five years. 
Richard C. Rochon has served as a Director of CBIZ since October 1996, when he was elected as an independent director. Mr. Rochon is Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Royal Palm Capital Management, a private investment and management firm that he founded in March 2002. From 1985 to February 2002 Mr. Rochon served in various capacities with Huizenga Holdings, Inc., a management
and holding company owned by H. Wayne Huizenga, where he last served as President. Mr. Rochon has also served as a director of Devcon International, a provider of electronic security services, from July 2004 until September 2009. Additionally,
Mr. Rochon has been a director of SunAir Services, Inc., a provider of pest-control and lawn care services from February 2005 until December 2009. Mr. Rochon was also a director of Bancshares of Florida, a full-service commercial bank from
2002 through February 2007. Mr. Rochon was Chairman and CEO of Coconut Palm Acquisition Corp., a newly organized blank check company from September 2005 through June 2007. Mr. Rochon was also employed as a certified public accountant by
the public accounting firm of Coopers and Lybrand from 1979 to 1985. Mr. Rochon received his B.S. in accounting from Binghamton University in 1979 and Certified Public Accounting designation in 1981. 
Todd Slotkin has served as a Director of CBIZ since September 2003, when he was elected as an independent director. In 2011, Mr. Slotkin was
appointed the Managing Partner of Newton Pointe LLC, an advisory firm, a position he also held during the period 2007-2008. Also in 2011, Mr. Slotkin became the lead independent director of Apollo Senior Floating Rate Fund, Inc. Between 2008
and 2010, Mr. Slotkin was a Senior Managing Director of Irving Place Capital. From 2006 to 2007 Mr. Slotkin served as a Managing Director of Natixis Capital Markets. From 1992 to 2006, Mr. Slotkin served as a SVP (1992-1998) and EVP
and Chief Financial Officer (1998-2006) of MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. Additionally, he was the EVP and CFO of publicly owned M&F Worldwide (1998-2006). Prior to 1992, Mr. Slotkin spent 17 years with Citigroup, ultimately
serving as Senior Managing Director and Senior Credit Officer. Mr. Slotkin serves on the Board of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. He is Chairman, Director and co-founder of the Food Allergy Initiative. Mr. Slotkin formerly served on the
Board of Managers of AlliedBarton and the Board of Directors of TransTech Pharma within the last five years.  Donald V. Weir has served
as a Director of CBIZ since September 2003, when he was elected as an independent director. Mr. Weir is Vice President of Private Equity for Sanders Morris Harris Group Inc. (“SMHG”) and has

  53 


Table of Contents

been with SMHG for the past eleven years. Prior to this Mr. Weir was CFO and director of publicly-held Deeptech International and two of its subsidiaries, Tatham Offshore and Leviathan Gas
Pipeline Company, both of which were publicly-held companies. Prior to his employment with Deeptech, Mr. Weir worked for eight years with Sugar Bowl Gas Corporation, as Controller and Treasurer and later in a consulting capacity. Mr. Weir
was associated with Price Waterhouse, an international accounting firm, from 1966 to 1979.  Benaree Pratt Wiley has served as a
Director of CBIZ since May 2008, when she was elected as an independent director. Ms. Wiley is a Principal of The Wiley Group, a firm specializing in personnel strategy, talent management, and leadership development primarily for global
insurance and consulting firms. Ms. Wiley served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of The Partnership, Inc., a talent management organization for multicultural professionals in the greater Boston region for fifteen years before
retiring in 2005. Ms. Wiley is currently a director on the boards of the Dreyfus Family of Funds and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts. Ms. Wiley also chairs the PepsiCo African American Advisory Board. Her civic activities
include serving on the boards of The Boston Foundation, the Efficacy Institute and Howard University.   Jerome P. Grisko, Jr.
has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of CBIZ since February 2000. Mr. Grisko joined CBIZ as Vice President, Mergers & Acquisitions in September 1998 and was promoted to Senior Vice President, Mergers &
Acquisitions and Legal Affairs in December of 1998. Prior to joining CBIZ, Mr. Grisko was associated with the law firm of Baker & Hostetler LLP, where he practiced from September 1987 until September 1998, serving as a partner of such
firm from January 1995 to September 1998. While at Baker & Hostetler, Mr. Grisko concentrated his practice in the area of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures.  Ware H. Grove has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CBIZ since December 2000. Before joining CBIZ, Mr. Grove served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Bridgestreet Accommodations, Inc., which he joined in early 2000 to restructure financing, develop strategic operating alternatives, and assist with merger negotiations. Prior to joining Bridgestreet, Mr. Grove served for three years
as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Lesco, Inc. Since beginning his career in corporate finance in 1972, Mr. Grove has held various financial positions with large companies representing a variety of industries, including Revco
D.S., Inc., Computerland/Vanstar, Manville Corporation, The Upjohn Company, and First of America Bank. Mr. Grove served on the Board of Directors for Applica, Inc. (NYSE: APN) from September 2004 through January 2007, at which time the company
was sold to a private equity firm.  Michael W. Gleespen has served as Corporate Secretary since April 2001 and General Counsel since
June 2001. Mr. Gleespen is an attorney and has served as CBIZ’s Vice President of Regulatory Compliance and Accountancy Compliance Officer and Technical Director since February 1998. Prior to joining CBIZ, Mr. Gleespen was an
Assistant Ohio Attorney General in the Business & Government Regulation Section and the Court of Claims Defense Section from 1988 until 1998, during which time he was counsel to the Ohio Accountancy Board, the Ohio State Teachers Retirement
System and represented many other state departments and agencies. Mr. Gleespen also held the post of Associate Attorney General for Pension, Disability and Annuity Plans and was the Co-Chairman of the Public Pension Plan Working Group.
 Other Key Employees: 
David Sibits is President of CBIZ’s Financial Services practice group. Prior to joining CBIZ in May 2007, Mr. Sibits was Executive
Managing Director of RSM McGladrey’s Ohio region from 2005 to 2007. Prior to RSM McGladrey’s acquisition of American Express Tax and Business Services (“TBS”), he was the Executive Managing Director of the TBS Eastern Region,
which included 35 offices in 13 states. Mr. Sibits was an integral member of the TBS senior leadership team and worked with his colleagues at RSM McGladrey to ensure a smooth integration with TBS. Mr. Sibits was also the Managing
Shareholder of Hausser & Taylor LLC from 1992 to January 2004.  Robert A. O’Byrne has served as President of CBIZ’s
Employee Services practice group since December 1998. Mr. O’Byrne served as President and Chief Executive Officer of employee benefits brokerage/consulting firms 
  54 


Table of Contents

Robert D. O’Byrne and Associates, Inc. and The Grant Nelson Group, Inc. prior to their acquisition by CBIZ in December 1997. Mr. O’Byrne has more than 30 years of experience in the
insurance and benefits consulting field.  G. Darrell Hulsey was one of the original founders of MMP and was appointed President of MMP
in May 2007. Mr. Hulsey has twenty years of experience in the healthcare industry, specializing in practice management, operations management, regulatory compliance, information system design and implementation; third party contracting, and
strategic planning. Mr. Hulsey is a member of the Medical Group Management Association, Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, Emergency Department Practice Management Association, Radiology Business Managers Association, and
the American Pathology Foundation.  Michael P. Kouzelos joined CBIZ in June 1998, was appointed Senior Vice President of Strategic
Initiatives in September 2005 and also currently serves as the Chief Operating Officer of the Employee Services Division. Mr. Kouzelos served as Vice President of Strategic Initiatives from April 2001 through August 2005, as Vice President of
Shared Services from August 2000 to March 2001, and as Director of Business Integration from June 1998 to July 2000. Mr. Kouzelos was associated with KPMG LLP, an international accounting firm, from 1990 to September 1996 and received his
Masters in Business Administration from The Ohio State University in May of 1998. Mr. Kouzelos is a CPA, Inactive, and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Ohio Society of Certified Public Accountants.
 George A. Dufour was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in July 2001. Prior to joining CBIZ, Mr. Dufour
served as Corporate Director of Information Access Services for University Hospitals Health Systems (“UHHS”), where he achieved substantial cost savings by consolidating IS resources throughout the health system. Prior to joining UHHS in
1999, Mr. Dufour served as Vice President and CIO for Akron General Health Systems. From 1986 through 1994, Mr. Dufour was with Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Ohio (“BCBSO”) and served most recently there as Director of Information
Systems Development. Mr. Dufour also served as Vice President of MIS for Mutual Health Services, a subsidiary of BCBSO. Prior to BCBSO, Mr. Dufour was the Director of MIS for the Automotive Aftermarket Division of the Sherwin Williams
Company. Mr. Dufour commenced his career in information technology, which includes tenures at Cook United, Cole National Corporation, General Tire & Rubber, Picker Corporation, and the Institute of Computer Management, a division of
Litton Industries. Mr. Dufour is a member of the northeast Ohio chapter of Society for Information Management and the National Information Technology Alliance for Professional Services firms. Mr. Dufour currently serves on the Board of
Directors of the Information Technology Alliance, is an advisory member for the Northeast Ohio CIO Symposium, a member of the Technology Advisory Committee for the Cleveland Sight Center and an advisory member of the Cleveland CIO Forum and
Executive IT Summit. Mr. Dufour was awarded the 2007 Northeast Ohio CIO of the Year award from the Northeast Ohio Software Association. Mr. Dufour earned his MBA from Baldwin Wallace College. 
Mark M. Waxman has served as Senior Vice President of Marketing since 2001. Mr. Waxman has over twenty-five years experience in marketing and
branding. Prior to joining CBIZ, he was CEO/Creative Director of one of Silicon Valley’s most well-known advertising agencies, Carter Waxman. Most recently, he was a founding partner of SK Consulting (acquired by CBIZ in 1998) providing
strategic marketing and branding services to a wide range of companies and industries. Mr. Waxman has been a featured marketing columnist and contributor to many business and trade publications, and currently serves on the Advisory
Board of several Silicon Valley start ups. He also serves on the Board of Trustees of the Montalvo Center for the Arts and the West Valley Mission Foundation, and is a past Chairman of the Board of Artsopolis.com and a past Chairman of the Board of
the Silicon Valley Chamber of Commerce.  Teresa E. Bur served as Vice President of Human Resources since January 1999 and was appointed
Senior Vice President in 2006. From 1995 to 1999 Ms. Bur served as Director of Human Resources for Robert D. O’Byrne & Associates, Inc. and The Grant Nelson Group, Inc., subsidiaries of CBIZ now known as CBIZ Employee

  55 


Table of Contents

Services, Inc. Ms. Bur has over 20 years of experience in human resources and is an active member of the Greater Kansas City Chapter of The Human Resources Management Association and Society
of Human Resources Management, and is certified as a Senior Professional in Human Resources.  Kelly J. Marek joined CBIZ in December
1998 and was appointed Corporate Treasurer in April 2005. Mrs. Marek served as Corporate Controller from July 1999 through March 2005, and as Manager of External Reporting from December 1998 to June 1999. Prior to joining CBIZ, Mrs. Marek
was associated with KPMG LLP, an international accounting firm, from 1992 to December 1998, serving as a Senior Manager of such firm from July 1998 to December 1998. Mrs. Marek is a CPA and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, the Ohio Society of Certified Public Accountants and the Association for Financial Professionals. Mrs. Marek currently serves as President of the Northeast Ohio Treasury Management Association. 
Robert A. Bosak CPA, joined CBIZ in September 2001 and has served as Corporate Controller since April 2005. Prior to joining CBIZ,
Mr. Bosak served as Corporate Controller and Director of Financial Operations for BridgeStreet Accommodations from February 1998 through June 2001. Prior to joining BridgeStreet Accommodations, Mr. Bosak was Corporate Controller of
the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, from June 1993 through February 1998. Mr. Bosak also worked in the public accounting industry with two Cleveland based firms from 1987 to 1993. Mr. Bosak is a CPA and a member of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Ohio Society of Certified Public Accountants. Mr. Bosak currently serves as a member of the Accounting and Audit Committee, and Chairman of the Public Company subcommittee for the Ohio Society
of Certified Public Accountants.   


Item 11.
Executive Compensation.  Information with
respect to this item is incorporated by reference from CBIZ’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting to be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the end of CBIZ’s fiscal year. 
 


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
Information with respect to this item is incorporated by reference from CBIZ’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Stockholders’
Meeting to be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the end of CBIZ’s fiscal year.   


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.  Information with respect to this item not included below is incorporated by reference from CBIZ’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting to be filed with the SEC no
later than 120 days after the end of CBIZ’s fiscal year.  The following is a summary of certain agreements and transactions between or
among CBIZ and certain related parties. It is CBIZ’s policy to enter into transactions with related parties on terms that, on the whole, are no less favorable than those that would be available from unaffiliated parties. Based on CBIZ’s
experience and the terms of its transactions with unaffiliated parties, it is the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors’ and managements’ belief that the transactions described below met these standards at the time of the transactions.
Management reviews these transactions as they occur and monitors them for compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct, internal procedures and applicable legal requirements. The Audit Committee reviews and ratifies such transactions annually,
or as they are more frequently brought to the attention of the Committee by the Company’s Director of Internal Audit, General Counsel or other members of management.  A director is considered independent under NYSE rules if the Board of Directors determines that the director does not have any direct or indirect material relationship with CBIZ. Mr. Gerard is an
employee of CBIZ and 
  56 


Table of Contents

therefore has been determined by the Nominating and Governance Committee and the full Board to fall outside the definition of “independent director”. Rick L. Burdick, Michael H.
DeGroote, Joseph S. DiMartino, Richard C. Rochon, Todd J. Slotkin, Donald V. Weir and Benaree Pratt Wiley are Non-Employee Directors of CBIZ. The Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board of Directors have determined that each of Rick L.
Burdick, Joseph S. DiMartino, Richard C. Rochon, Todd J. Slotkin, Donald V. Weir and Benaree Pratt Wiley are “independent directors” within the meaning of the rules of the NYSE, since they had no material relationship with the Company
other than their status and payment as Non-Employee Directors, and as Stockholders. The Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board of Directors have determined that Mssrs. Rochon, Slotkin and Weir are independent under the SEC’s
audit committee independence standards.  In connection with these independence determinations, the Nominating and Governance Committee and the
Board of Directors considered all of the relationships between each director and CBIZ, and in particular the following relationships:   


 
•
 
 Rick L. Burdick, a Director of CBIZ, is a partner of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP (“Akin Gump”). Akin Gump performed legal
work for CBIZ during 2011, 2010 and 2009 for which the firm received approximately $0.5 million, $0.8 million and $0.4 million from CBIZ, respectively. The Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board of Directors have determined that
Mr. Burdick should be considered an “independent director” under the meaning of the NYSE rules, since the amounts paid to the law firm of Akin Gump for legal representation of CBIZ throughout 2011 were not collectively significant
under the NYSE rules governing director independence.   


 
•
 
 The Committee and the Board determined that Michael H. DeGroote should not be considered an “independent director” under the meaning of the
NYSE rules, primarily in light of his relationship to a significant stockholder of the Company. Mr. DeGroote is the son of Michael G. DeGroote, the beneficiary of a trust which is the largest single stockholder for the purposes of determining
independence. He is also an officer or director of various privately held companies that obtain several types of insurance coverage through CBIZ. The commissions paid to CBIZ for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
were approximately $0.1 million.   


 
•
 
 Richard C. Rochon, a Director of CBIZ, is also an officer or director of various entities which secured several types of insurance coverage or other
services through CBIZ. However, the commissions paid to CBIZ for the purpose of securing such coverage, totaling approximately $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, do not collectively appear significant under the NYSE rules
governing director independence. During 2011 and 2010, no coverage for these entities was acquired through CBIZ following the disposition of these entities by Mr. Rochon’s investment group. The business advisory and tax services provided
by CBIZ to several entities in which Mr. Rochon is either an officer or director, or in which he holds or controls a significant but not controlling interest totals approximately $0.4 million for 2011. Therefore, the Nominating and Governance
Committee and the Board of Directors determined that Mr. Rochon should be considered an “independent director”.  Pursuant to the Westbury Agreement entered into on September 14, 2010 by CBIZ with its largest shareholder, Westbury, a company organized by CBIZ founder Michael G. DeGroote, CBIZ purchased 7,716,669
shares of CBIZ’s common stock at $6.25 per share for a total cost of approximately $48.5 million. Pursuant to the Westbury Agreement, CBIZ also purchased an option for $5.0 million, which expires on September 30, 2013, to purchase up to
approximately 7.7 million shares of CBIZ’s common stock at a price of $7.25 per share, which constitutes the remaining shares of CBIZ’s common stock held by Westbury.  A number of the businesses acquired by CBIZ are located in properties that are indirectly owned by persons employed by CBIZ, none of whom are members of CBIZ’s senior management. In the aggregate,
CBIZ paid approximately $0.7 million, $0.8 million and $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, under such leases which management believes were at market rates. 
  57 


Table of Contents
Robert A. O’Byrne, President, Employee Services, has an interest in a partnership that receives
commissions from CBIZ that are paid to certain eligible benefits and insurance producers in accordance with a formal program to provide benefits in the event of death, disability, retirement or other termination. The program was in existence at the
time CBIZ acquired the former company, of which Mr. O’Byrne was an owner. During 2011 and 2010, the partnership did not receive any payments from CBIZ, and during the year ended December 31, 2009, the partnership received from CBIZ
approximately $0.1 million.  CBIZ maintains joint-referral relationships and ASAs with independent licensed CPA firms under which CBIZ
provides administrative services in exchange for a fee. These firms are owned by licensed CPAs who are employed by CBIZ subsidiaries, and provide audit and attest services to clients including CBIZ’s clients. The CPA firms with which CBIZ
maintains service agreements operate as limited liability companies or professional corporations. The firms are separate legal entities with separate governing bodies and officers. CBIZ has no ownership interest in any of these CPA firms, and
neither the existence of the ASAs nor the providing of services there under is intended to constitute control of the CPA firms by CBIZ. CBIZ and the CPA firms maintain their own respective liability and risk of loss in connection with performance of
each of its respective services, and CBIZ does not believe that its arrangements with these CPA firms result in additional risk of loss.  CBIZ
acted as guarantor for letters of credit for a CPA firm with which it has an affiliation. The letters of credit totaled $5.2 million and $3.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. CBIZ has recognized a liability for the fair
value of the obligations undertaken in issuing these guarantees, which is recorded as other current liabilities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Management does not expect any material changes to result from these instruments
as performance is not expected to be required.   


Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 
Information with respect to this item is incorporated by reference from CBIZ’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Stockholders’
Meeting to be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the end of CBIZ’s fiscal year. 
  58 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 
(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report or incorporated by reference: 
1. Financial Statements.  As to financial statements and supplementary information, reference is made to “Index to Financial Statements” on page F-1 of this Annual Report. 
2. Financial Statement Schedules.  As to financial statement schedules, reference is made to “Index to Financial Statements” on page F-1 of this Annual Report. 
3. Exhibits. 
The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Since its incorporation, CBIZ
has operated under various names including: Republic Environmental Systems, Inc.; International Alliance Services, Inc.; Century Business Services, Inc.; and CBIZ, Inc. Exhibits listed below refer to these names collectively as “the
Company”.   






 Exhibit No.
 
 Description




 2.1
 
Purchase Agreement, dated November 24, 2008, among CBIZ, Inc., CBIZ Accounting Tax & Advisory of New York, LLC, Mahoney Cohen & Company, CPA, P.C., Mahoney Cohen
Consulting Corp., Mahoney Cohen Family Office Services LLC and the members of Mahoney Cohen Family Office Services LLC (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-32961, dated November 25, 2008, and incorporated
herein by reference).




 3.1
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10, File No. 0-25890, and incorporated
herein by reference).




 3.2
 
Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated October 17, 1996 (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 000-25890, dated March 31, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference).




 3.3
 
Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company effective December 23, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1997, File No. 000-25890, dated February 18, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference).




 3.4
 
Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated September 10, 1998 (filed as Exhibit 3.4 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1998, File No. 000-25890, dated March 4, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference).




 3.5
 
Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, effective August 1, 2005 (filed as Exhibit 3.5 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2005, File No. 000-25890, dated March 16, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference).




 3.6
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10, File No. 000-25890, and incorporated herein by
reference).
  59 


Table of Contents






 Exhibit No.
 
 Description




 3.7
 
Amendment to Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company dated November 1, 2007 (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-32961, dated
November 1, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference).




 4.1
 
Form of Stock Certificate of Common Stock of the Company (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, File No.
000-25890, dated March 4, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference).




 4.2
 
Employee Stock Investment Plan (filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Report on Form S-8,File No. 000-333-62148, dated June 1, 2001, and incorporated herein by
reference).




 4.3
 
Indenture, dated as of May 30, 2006, between CBIZ, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K, File No.
000-25890, dated May 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference).




 4.4
 
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 30, 2006, between CBIZ, Inc. and Banc of America Securities, LLC (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Report on Form
8-K,File No. 000-25890, dated May 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference).




 4.5
 
Indenture, dated as of September 27, 2010, between CBIZ, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Report on Form
8-K,File No. 0001-32961, dated September 27, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.1†
 
2002 Stock Incentive Plan (filed as Appendix A to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, File No. 000-25890, dated April 1, 2002, and
incorporated herein by reference).




 10.2†
 
Severance Protection Agreement by and between the Company and Jerome P. Grisko, Jr. (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2000, File No. 000-25890, dated April 2, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.3†
 
Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Ware H. Grove (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2000,File No. 000-25890, dated April 2, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.4†
 
First Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Steven L. Gerard dated March 22, 2007 (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s
Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-32961, dated March 23, , 2007, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.5†
 
Employment Agreement by and between the Company and David J. Sibits, dated April 17, 2007 (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2007, File No. 001-32961, dated March 17, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.6
 
Credit agreement dated as of June 4, 2010 by and among CBIZ, Inc., Bank of America, N.A., as agent, lender, issuing band and swing line bank, and the other financial
institutions from time to time party to the Credit Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-32961, dated June 10, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.7
 
Stock and Option Purchase Agreement dated September 14, 2010, by and among Westbury (Bermuda) Ltd., Westbury Trust, Michael G. DeGroote, and CBIZ, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.1
to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-32961, dated September 17, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).
  60 


Table of Contents






 Exhibit No.
 
 Description




 10.8
 
First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of September 14, 2010, by and among CBIZ, Inc., the Guarantors (as defined in the Credit Agreement), the several financial
institutions from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-32961, dated September 17, 2010, and incorporated herein by
reference).




 10.9
 
Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2010, between CBIZ, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representative of the initial purchasers
named in Schedule A thereto (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-32961, dated September 27, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.10†
 
Amended Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Ware H. Grove, dated November 22, 2010 (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K,File No.
001-32961, dated November 24, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.11
 
Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement, dated as of April 11, 011, by and among CBIZ, Inc., Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other financial
institutions from time to time party to the Credit Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-32961, dated April 13, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




 10.12†
 
CBIZ, Inc. 2002 Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of May 12, 2011), (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Report on Form 10-Q, File No.
001-32961, dated August 9, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




 21.1*
 
List of Subsidiaries of CBIZ, Inc.




 23*
 
Consent of KPMG LLP




 24*
 
Powers of attorney (included on the signature page hereto).




 31.1*
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




 31.2*
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




 32.1*
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




 32.2*
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




 101**
 
The following materials from CBIZ, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language); (i)
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and (v) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
  


*
Indicates documents filed herewith.   


**
Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101 hereto are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for
purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections.
  


†
 Management
contract or compensatory plan contract or arrangement filed pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. 
  61 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, CBIZ, Inc. has duly caused this Annual Report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   






 CBIZ, INC.
(REGISTRANT)




By
 
/s/    WARE H. GROVE


 
Ware H. Grove


 
Chief Financial Officer


 
March 15, 2012
 KNOW ALL MEN AND WOMEN BY THESE PRESENTS that each person whose signature appears below on this Annual Report
hereby constitutes and appoints Steven L. Gerard and Ware H. Grove, and each of them, with full power to act without the other, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution for him and her and his and her name,
place and stead, in all capacities (until revoked in writing), to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report of CBIZ, Inc. and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, granting unto each attorney-in-fact and agent, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, thereby
ratifying and confirming all that each attorney-in-fact and agent, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of CBIZ, Inc. and in the capacities and on the date
indicated above.   












/s/    STEVEN L. GERARD
 

 
/s/    WARE H. GROVE

Steven L. Gerard
 

 
Ware H. Grove

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 

 
Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)
 

 
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
  












/s/    RICK L. BURDICK
 

 
/s/    MICHAEL H. DEGROOTE

Rick L. Burdick
 

 
Michael H. DeGroote

Director
 

 
Director
  












/s/    JOSEPH S. DIMARTINO
 

 
/s/    RICHARD C. ROCHON

Joseph S. DiMartino
 

 
Richard C. Rochon

Director
 

 
Director
  












/s/    TODD SLOTKIN
 

 
/s/    DONALD V. WEIR

Todd Slotkin
 

 
Donald V. Weir

Director
 

 
Director
  












/s/    BENAREE PRATT WILEY
 

 


Benaree Pratt Wiley
 

 


Director
 

 


  62 


Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   








 
  
Page
 

 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
F-2 - F-3
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
F-4
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-5
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31,
 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
F-6
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-7
  

 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
F-8
  

 Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for the years ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
F-51
  

  F-1



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders  CBIZ, Inc.:  We have audited CBIZ, Inc.’s (the Company) internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting included in Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets
of CBIZ, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2011, and our report dated March 15, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
/s/ KPMG LLP  Cleveland, Ohio 
March 15, 2012 
  F-2



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders  CBIZ,
Inc.:  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of CBIZ, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011
and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 as listed in the accompanying index on
page F-1. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have also audited the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index on page F-1. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission, and our report dated March 15, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  /s/ KPMG LLP  Cleveland, Ohio  March 15, 2012 
  F-3



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010  (In thousands, except per share data)   












 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

ASSETS
 



 




 Current assets:
 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
1,613
  
 
$
724
  

 Restricted cash
 
 
19,838
  
 
 
20,171
  

 Accounts receivable, net
 
 
137,073
  
 
 
138,068
  

 Income taxes refundable
 
 
3,898
  
 
 
3,684
  

 Deferred income taxes — current
 
 
8,056
  
 
 
4,236
  

 Other current assets
 
 
11,438
  
 
 
11,958
  

 Assets of discontinued operations
 
 
559
  
 
 
640
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Current assets before funds held for clients
 
 
182,475
  
 
 
179,481
  

 Funds held for clients — current
 
 
109,854
  
 
 
73,987
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
292,329
  
 
 
253,468
  

 Property and equipment, net
 
 
21,802
  
 
 
23,895
  

 Deferred income taxes — non-current, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
837
  

 Goodwill and other intangible assets, net
 
 
458,340
  
 
 
426,410
  

 Assets of deferred compensation plan
 
 
33,585
  
 
 
33,361
  

 Funds held for clients — non-current
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,216
  

 Other assets
 
 
6,301
  
 
 
8,112
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
812,357
  
 
$
756,299
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES
 



 




 Current liabilities:
 



 




 Accounts payable
 
$
34,960
  
 
$
30,814
  

 Accrued personnel costs
 
 
33,658
  
 
 
33,030
  

 Notes payable — current
 
 
13,986
  
 
 
10,983
  

 Convertible notes, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
39,250
  

 Other current liabilities
 
 
33,579
  
 
 
27,321
  

 Liabilities of discontinued operations
 
 
199
  
 
 
562
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Current liabilities before client fund obligations
 
 
116,382
  
 
 
141,960
  

 Client fund obligations
 
 
109,800
  
 
 
87,362
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
226,182
  
 
 
229,322
  

 Convertible notes, net
 
 
119,778
  
 
 
116,577
  

 Bank debt
 
 
145,000
  
 
 
118,900
  

 Income taxes payable — non-current
 
 
4,441
  
 
 
5,285
  

 Deferred income taxes — non-current, net
 
 
1,893
  
 
 
—
  

 Deferred compensation plan obligations
 
 
33,585
  
 
 
33,361
  

 Other non-current liabilities
 
 
21,320
  
 
 
23,182
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
552,199
  
 
 
526,627
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 



 




 Common stock, par value $0.01 per share; shares authorized 250,000; shares issued 111,060 and 109,626; shares outstanding 50,036
and 50,048
 
 
1,111
  
 
 
1,096
  

 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
551,205
  
 
 
539,389
  

 Retained earnings
 
 
73,985
  
 
 
45,978
  

 Treasury stock, 61,024 and 59,578 shares
 
 
(365,364
) 
 
 
(355,851
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(779
) 
 
 
(940
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
 
 
260,158
  
 
 
229,672
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
 
$
812,357
  
 
$
756,299
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  F-4



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009 
(In thousands, except per share data)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenue
  
$
733,805
  
 
$
730,401
  
 
$
736,787
  

 Operating expenses
  
 
643,867
  
 
 
644,335
  
 
 
648,409
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
  
 
89,938
  
 
 
86,066
  
 
 
88,378
  

 Corporate general and administrative expenses
  
 
31,985
  
 
 
29,584
  
 
 
30,722
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
57,953
  
 
 
56,482
  
 
 
57,656
  

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
(17,355
) 
 
 
(15,308
) 
 
 
(13,392
) 

 Gain on sale of operations, net
  
 
2,920
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
989
  

 Other income, net
  
 
3,449
  
 
 
3,532
  
 
 
6,622
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expense, net
  
 
(10,986
) 
 
 
(11,310
) 
 
 
(5,781
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income tax expense
  
 
46,967
  
 
 
45,172
  
 
 
51,875
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
18,383
  
 
 
17,017
  
 
 
19,823
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
28,584
  
 
 
28,155
  
 
 
32,052
  

 Loss from operations of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
(591
) 
 
 
(2,668
) 
 
 
(866
) 

 Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
14
  
 
 
(973
) 
 
 
210
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
28,007
  
 
$
24,514
  
 
$
31,396
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per share:
  



 



 




 Basic:
  



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
0.58
  
 
$
0.49
  
 
$
0.52
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.07
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
0.57
  
 
$
0.42
  
 
$
0.51
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
0.58
  
 
$
0.48
  
 
$
0.52
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
(0.06
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
0.56
  
 
$
0.42
  
 
$
0.51
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
49,328
  
 
 
57,692
  
 
 
61,200
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
49,599
  
 
 
58,193
  
 
 
61,859
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  F-5



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009  (In thousands)
  




































 
 
IssuedCommonShares
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-InCapital
 
 
AccumulatedDeficit /RetainedEarnings
 
 
TreasuryShares
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 
 
Totals
 

 December 31, 2008
 
 
106,789
  
 
$
1,068
  
 
$
508,023
  
 
$
(10,155
) 
 
 
44,317
  
 
$
(256,295
) 
 
$
(1,042
) 
 
$
241,599
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
31,396
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
31,396
  

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(64
) 
 
 
(64
) 

 Unrealized gains on available for sale securities, net of income tax expense of $214
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
321
  
 
 
321
  

 Unrealized gains on interest rate swap, net of income tax expense of $51
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
86
  
 
 
86
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
31,739
  

 Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting forother-than-temporary impaired investments, net of income tax benefit of
$149
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
223
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(223
) 
 
 
—
  

 Share repurchases
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,822
  
 
 
(13,347
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(13,347
) 

 Restricted stock
 
 
385
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
364
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
1,317
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,321
  

 Share-based compensation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,754
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,754
  

 Tax benefit from employee share plans
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
478
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
478
  

 Business acquisitions
 
 
537
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
4,069
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,074
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2009
 
 
108,075
  
 
$
1,081
  
 
$
518,637
  
 
$
21,464
  
 
 
46,139
  
 
$
(269,642
) 
 
$
(922
) 
 
$
270,618
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
24,514
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
24,514
  

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(71
) 
 
 
(71
) 

 Unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of income tax benefit of $38
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(57
) 
 
 
(57
) 

 Unrealized gains on interest rate swap, net of income tax expense of $64
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
110
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
24,496
  

 Issuance of convertible notes, net of taxes of $5,024
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,555
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,555
  

 Share repurchases
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
13,439
  
 
 
(86,209
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(86,209
) 

 Restricted stock
 
 
379
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
304
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1,217
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,220
  

 Share-based compensation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,306
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,306
  

 Tax benefit from employee share plans
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
54
  

 Business acquisitions
 
 
868
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
5,623
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,632
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
 
 
109,626
  
 
$
1,096
  
 
$
539,389
  
 
$
45,978
  
 
 
59,578
  
 
$
(355,851
) 
 
$
(940
) 
 
$
229,672
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
28,007
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
28,007
  

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(65
) 
 
 
(65
) 

 Unrealized gains on available for sale securities, net of income tax expense of $276
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
638
  

 Unrealized losses on interest rate swap, net of income tax benefit of $242
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(412
) 
 
 
(412
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
28,168
  

 Share repurchases
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,446
  
 
 
(9,513
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,513
) 

 Restricted stock
 
 
483
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
220
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
766
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
768
  

 Share-based compensation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,954
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,954
  

 Tax benefit from employee share plans
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
76
  

 Business acquisitions
 
 
731
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
5,026
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,033
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2011
 
 
111,060
  
 
$
1,111
  
 
$
551,205
  
 
$
73,985
  
 
 
61,024
  
 
$
(365,364
) 
 
$
(779
) 
 
$
260,158
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  F-6



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009 
(In thousands)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
28,007
  
 
$
24,514
  
 
$
31,396
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Loss from discontinued operations activities, net of tax
  
 
577
  
 
 
3,640
  
 
 
656
  

 Gain on sale of operations, net
  
 
(2,920
) 
 
 
(466
) 
 
 
(989
) 

 Loss on redemption of convertible bonds
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,996
  
 
 
—
  

 Asset impairments
  
 
—
  
 
 
263
  
 
 
—
  

 Depreciation and amortization expense
  
 
20,345
  
 
 
20,332
  
 
 
20,496
  

 Amortization of discount on notes and deferred financing costs
  
 
4,820
  
 
 
5,462
  
 
 
4,843
  

 Amortization of discount on contingent earnout liability
  
 
186
  
 
 
177
  
 
 
—
  

 Provision for credit losses and bad debt, net of recoveries
  
 
6,559
  
 
 
4,453
  
 
 
7,765
  

 Adjustment to contingent earnout liability
  
 
(3,479
) 
 
 
(1,516
) 
 
 
—
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
(2,899
) 
 
 
(2,079
) 
 
 
245
  

 Employee stock awards
  
 
5,954
  
 
 
5,306
  
 
 
4,754
  

 Excess tax benefits from share based payment arrangements
  
 
(76
) 
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
(478
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures:
  



 



 




 Restricted cash
  
 
333
  
 
 
(416
) 
 
 
524
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
(1,570
) 
 
 
(12,763
) 
 
 
(10,464
) 

 Other assets
  
 
448
  
 
 
1,301
  
 
 
155
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
4,212
  
 
 
5,312
  
 
 
(2,365
) 

 Income taxes payable
  
 
(1,176
) 
 
 
(1,054
) 
 
 
(86
) 

 Accrued personnel costs
  
 
560
  
 
 
(1,259
) 
 
 
(6,088
) 

 Other liabilities
  
 
(1,019
) 
 
 
2,819
  
 
 
(1,602
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by continuing operations
  
 
58,862
  
 
 
55,968
  
 
 
48,762
  

 Operating cash flows (used in) provided by discontinued operations
  
 
(593
) 
 
 
(2,641
) 
 
 
1,004
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
58,269
  
 
 
53,327
  
 
 
49,766
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Business acquisitions and contingent consideration, net of cash acquired
  
 
(27,515
) 
 
 
(49,402
) 
 
 
(20,185
) 

 Purchases of client fund investments
  
 
(19,643
) 
 
 
(15,840
) 
 
 
(9,500
) 

 Proceeds from the sales and maturities of client fund investments
  
 
11,507
  
 
 
10,700
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds on sales of divested and discontinued operations
  
 
1,036
  
 
 
8,060
  
 
 
895
  

 Net decrease in funds held for clients
  
 
(16,734
) 
 
 
19,052
  
 
 
24,698
  

 Additions to property and equipment, net
  
 
(4,259
) 
 
 
(2,682
) 
 
 
(4,039
) 

 Other
  
 
36
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
402
  

 Investing cash flows used in discontinued operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(63
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(55,572
) 
 
 
(30,113
) 
 
 
(7,792
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from bank debt
  
 
484,150
  
 
 
554,955
  
 
 
429,345
  

 Payment of bank debt
  
 
(458,050
) 
 
 
(546,055
) 
 
 
(444,345
) 

 Proceeds from issuance of convertible notes
  
 
—
  
 
 
130,000
  
 
 
—
  

 Repurchase of convertible notes
  
 
(39,250
) 
 
 
(60,000
) 
 
 
—
  

 Payment for acquisition of treasury stock
  
 
(9,513
) 
 
 
(86,209
) 
 
 
(13,347
) 

 Net decrease in client funds obligations
  
 
22,438
  
 
 
(13,912
) 
 
 
(15,359
) 

 Payment of contingent consideration of acquisitions
  
 
(1,824
) 
 
 
(2,971
) 
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
768
  
 
 
1,220
  
 
 
1,321
  

 Payment of notes payable and capitalized leases, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
(154
) 
 
 
(274
) 

 Deferred financing costs
  
 
(603
) 
 
 
(6,596
) 
 
 
(37
) 

 Excess tax benefit from exercise of stock awards
  
 
76
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
478
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
  
 
(1,808
) 
 
 
(29,668
) 
 
 
(42,218
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
889
  
 
 
(6,454
) 
 
 
(244
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
724
  
 
 
7,178
  
 
 
7,422
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
1,613
  
 
$
724
  
 
$
7,178
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  F-7



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   


1.
Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Organization  CBIZ,
Inc. is a diversified services company which, acting through its subsidiaries, provides professional business services primarily to small and medium-sized businesses, as well as individuals, governmental entities, and not-for-profit enterprises
throughout the United States and parts of Canada. CBIZ manages and reports its operations along four practice groups: Financial Services, Employee Services, Medical Management Professionals (“MMP”) and National Practices. A further
description of products and services offered by each of the practice groups is provided in Note 22.  Principles of Consolidation
 The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the operations of CBIZ, Inc. and all of its wholly-owned subsidiaries
(“CBIZ” or the “Company”). All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  CBIZ has
determined that its relationship with certain Certified Public Accounting (“CPA”) firms with whom it maintains administrative service agreements (“ASAs”) qualify as variable interest entities. The accompanying consolidated
financial statements do not reflect the operations or accounts of variable interest entities as the impact is not material to the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of CBIZ. 
The CPA firms with which CBIZ maintains administrative service agreements may operate as limited liability companies or professional corporations. The
firms are separate legal entities with separate governing bodies and officers. CBIZ has no ownership interest in any of these CPA firms, and neither the existence of the ASAs nor the providing of services there under is intended to constitute
control of the CPA firms by CBIZ. CBIZ and the CPA firms maintain their own respective liability and risk of loss in connection with performance of each of their respective services.  Fees earned by CBIZ under the ASAs are recorded as revenue (at net realizable value) in the consolidated statements of operations and were approximately $109.1 million, $110.1 million and $108.2 million
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, a majority of which was related to services rendered to privately-held clients. In the event that accounts receivable and unbilled work in process become uncollectible by the
CPA firms, the service fee due to CBIZ is typically reduced on a proportional basis. Although the ASAs do not constitute control, CBIZ is one of the beneficiaries of the agreements and may bear certain economic risks. 
Use of Estimates  The preparation of
consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Management’s estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, estimates of collectability of accounts receivable and unbilled revenue, the
realizability of goodwill and other intangible assets, the fair value of certain assets, the valuation of stock options in determining compensation expense, estimates of accrued liabilities (such as incentive compensation, self-funded health
insurance accruals, legal reserves, income tax uncertainties, future contingent purchase price obligations, and consolidation and integration reserves), the provision for income taxes, the realizability of deferred tax assets, and other factors.
Management’s estimates and assumptions are derived from and are continually evaluated based upon available information, judgment and experience. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
  F-8



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Reclassifications  Certain amounts in the 2010 and 2009 consolidated financial statements and disclosures have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, including the impact of discontinued operations.
 Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less at the date of
purchase.  Restricted Cash 
Funds held by CBIZ in relation to its capital and investment advisory services are recorded in restricted cash, as those funds are restricted in
accordance with applicable Financial Industry Regulatory Authority regulations. Funds on deposit from clients in connection with the pass-through of insurance premiums to the carrier are also recorded in restricted cash; the related liability for
these funds is recorded in accounts payable. Funds held in escrow related to sales of operations are also classified as restricted cash. 
Funds Held for Clients and Client Fund Obligations  Services provided by CBIZ include the preparation of payroll checks, federal, state, and local payroll tax returns, and flexible spending account administration. In relation to these services, as well as
other similar service offerings, CBIZ collects funds from its clients’ accounts in advance of paying client obligations. Funds that are collected before they are due are segregated and reported separately as “Funds Held for Clients”
in the consolidated balance sheets. Other than certain federal and state regulations pertaining to flexible spending account administration, there are no regulatory or other contractual restrictions placed on these funds. 
Funds Held for Clients are reported as current and non-current assets, as appropriate, based upon characteristics of the underlying investments, and
Client Fund Obligations are reported as current liabilities. If the par value of investments held does not approximate fair value, the balance in Funds Held for Clients may not be equal to the balance in Client Fund Obligations. The amount of
collected but not yet remitted funds may vary significantly during the year. Funds Held for Clients include cash, overnight investments and corporate and municipal bonds.  Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  Derivatives are recognized as either assets
or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets and are measured at fair value. The treatment of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of derivative instruments is dependent on the use of the respective derivative instruments
and whether they qualify for hedge accounting. See Note 5 for further discussion of derivative instruments.  Accounts Receivable and
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  CBIZ carries accounts receivable at their face amount less allowances for doubtful accounts, and carries
unbilled revenues at estimated net realizable value. Assessing the collectability of receivables (billed and unbilled) requires management judgment. When evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts and the overall collectability
of receivables, CBIZ analyzes historical bad debts, client credit-worthiness, the age of accounts receivable and current economic trends and conditions.  Goodwill  CBIZ utilizes the acquisition method of accounting for all business combinations.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment annually, or in 
  F-9



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. CBIZ tests for impairment of
its goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year. See Note 4 for additional discussion regarding goodwill impairment testing. 
Long-Lived Assets  Long-lived assets
primarily include property and equipment and intangible assets, which primarily consist of client lists and non-compete agreements. The intangible assets are amortized over their expected periods of benefit, which generally ranges from two to ten
years. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets or groups of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of long-lived assets or groups of assets is
assessed based on a comparison of the undiscounted cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. If an impairment is indicated, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis or market comparable
method. Determining the fair value of long-lived assets includes significant judgment by management, and different judgments could yield different results.  Property and Equipment  Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives:   






 Buildings
  
25 to 40 years

 Furniture and fixtures
  
5 to 10 years

 Capitalized software
  
2 to 7 years

 Equipment
  
3 to 7 years
 Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the remaining term of the
respective lease. The cost of software purchased or developed for internal use is capitalized and amortized to expense using the straight-line method over an estimated useful life not to exceed seven years. Capitalized software is classified as
“property and equipment, net” in the consolidated balance sheets.  Income Taxes 
Income taxes are provided for the tax effects of transactions reported in the consolidated financial statements and consist of taxes currently payable and
deferred taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis, and
operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. State income tax credits are accounted for using the flow-through method.  A valuation
allowance is provided when it is more-likely-than-not that some portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. CBIZ determines valuation allowances based on all available evidence. Such evidence includes historical results, the reversal of
deferred tax liabilities, expectations of future consolidated and/or separate company profitability and the feasibility of tax-planning strategies. Determining valuation allowances includes significant judgment by management, and different judgments
could yield different results.  Accounting for uncertain tax positions requires a more-likely-than-not threshold for recognition in the
consolidated financial statements. The Company recognizes a tax benefit based on whether it is more-likely-than-not that a tax position will be sustained. The Company records a liability to the extent that a tax position taken or expected to be
taken on a tax return exceeds the amount recognized in the consolidated financial statements. 
  F-10



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Revenue Recognition and Valuation of Unbilled Revenues 
Revenue is recognized only when all of the following are present: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have
been rendered, the Company’s fee to the client is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Contract terms are typically contained in a signed agreement with the client (or when applicable, other third parties) which
generally defines the scope of services to be provided, pricing of services, and payment terms generally ranging from invoice date to 90 days after invoice date. Billing may occur prior to, during, or upon completion of the service. CBIZ typically
does not have acceptance provisions or right of refund arrangements included in these agreements. Contract terms vary depending on the scope of service provided, the deliverables, and the complexity of the engagement. 
CBIZ offers a vast array of products and business services to its clients. Those services are delivered through four practice groups. A description of
revenue recognition, as it relates to those groups, is provided below.  Financial Services — Revenue
primarily consists of fees for services rendered to the Company’s client for accounting services, preparation of tax returns, consulting services, compliance projects, services pursuant to administrative service agreements (described under
“Principles of Consolidation”), and valuation services including fairness opinions, business plans, litigation support, purchase price allocations and derivative valuations. Clients are billed for these services based upon a time and
expense model, a predetermined agreed-upon fixed fee, or as a percentage of savings.  Revenue recognition as it pertains to each of these
arrangements is as follows:   


 
•
 
 Time and Expense Arrangements — Revenue is recognized based upon actual hours incurred on client projects at expected net realizable rates per
hour, plus agreed-upon out-of-pocket expenses. The cumulative impact on any subsequent revision in the estimated realizable value of unbilled fees for a particular client project is reflected in the period in which the change becomes known.
  


 
•
 
 Fixed Fee Arrangements — Revenue for fixed-fee arrangements is recognized over the performance period based upon progress towards completion,
which is determined based upon actual hours incurred on the client project compared to estimated total hours to complete the client project.   


 
•
 
 Contingent Revenue Arrangements — Revenue is recognized when savings to the client is determined and collection is reasonably assured.
  


 
•
 
 Administrative Service Agreement Revenue — Revenue for administrative service fees is recognized as services are provided, based upon actual hours
incurred.  Employee Services — Revenue consists primarily of brokerage and agency commissions, fee income
for administering health and retirement plans and payroll service fees. Revenue also includes investment income related to client payroll funds that are held in CBIZ accounts, as is industry practice. A description of the revenue recognition, based
on the service provided, insurance product sold, and billing arrangement, is provided below.   


 
•
 
 Commissions Revenue — Commissions relating to brokerage and agency activities whereby CBIZ has primary responsibility for the collection of
premiums from the insured (agency or indirect billing) are recognized as of the later of the effective date of the insurance policy or the date billed to the customer; commissions to be received directly from insurance companies (direct billing) are
recognized when the data necessary from the carriers to properly record revenue becomes available; and life insurance commissions are recognized when the policy becomes effective. Commission revenue is reported net of sub-broker commissions, and
reserves for estimated policy cancellations and terminations. The cancellation and termination reserve is based upon estimates and assumptions using historical 
  F-11



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   


 
 
cancellation and termination experience and other current factors to project future experience. CBIZ periodically reviews the adequacy of the reserve and makes adjustments as necessary. The use
of different estimates or assumptions could produce different results.  Commissions which are based upon
certain performance targets are recognized at the earlier of written notification that the target has been achieved or cash collection.   


 
•
 
 Fee income — Fee income is recognized in the period in which services are provided, and may be based on predetermined agreed-upon fixed fees,
actual hours incurred on an hourly fee basis, or asset-based fees. Revenue for fixed-fee arrangements is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period, as these services are provided to clients continuously throughout the term of the
arrangement. Revenue which is based upon actual hours incurred is recognized as services are performed. 
Revenue for asset-based fees is recognized when the data necessary to compute revenue is determinable, which is typically when either
market valuation information is available, the data necessary to compute fees is made available by third party administrators or when cash is received. CBIZ only recognizes revenue when cash is received for those arrangements where the data
necessary to compute the Company’s fee is not available to the Company in a timely manner.   


 
•
 
 Payroll — Revenue related to payroll processing fees is recognized when the actual payroll processing occurs. Revenue related to investment income
earned on payroll funds is based upon actual amounts earned on those funds and is recognized in the period that the income is earned.  MMP — Revenue is primarily related to fees charged to clients for billing, collection and full-practice management services, which are typically charged to clients based upon a
percentage of net collections on the Company’s clients’ patient accounts or as a fee per transaction processed. Revenue also relates to fees charged to clients for statement mailing services. The revenue recognition as it pertains to each
of these arrangements is as follows:   


 
•
 
 Fee income — For those arrangements where fees to clients are determined based upon a percentage of net collections, revenue is determinable,
earned and recognized when payments are received by the client on their patient accounts. For those arrangements where clients are charged a fee for each transaction processed, revenue is typically recognized proportionately over a predetermined
service period.   


 
•
 
 Statement mailing services — Revenues for statement mailing services are recognized when statements are processed and
mailed. National Practices — The business units that comprise the National Practices group offer a
variety of services. A description of revenue recognition associated with the primary services is provided below.   


 
•
 
 Technology Consulting — Revenue consists of services that primarily relate to the installation, maintenance and repair of hardware. These services
are charged to customers based on cost plus an agreed-upon markup percentage.   


 
•
 
 Health Care Consulting — Clients are billed for health care consulting services based upon a predetermined agreed-upon fixed fee, time and
expense, or as a percentage of savings. Revenue for fixed fee and time and expense arrangements is recognized over the performance period based upon actual hours incurred, and revenue that is contingent upon savings is recognized after contingencies
have been resolved and verified by a third party.   


 
•
 
 Mergers & Acquisitions — Clients are billed monthly for non-refundable retainer fees, or upon the completion of a transaction (success
fees). Revenue associated with non-refundable retainer fees is 
  F-12



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   


 
 
recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the engagement as services are performed throughout the term of the contract period of the arrangement. Revenue associated with success fee
transactions is recognized when the transaction is completed.  Operating Expenses 
Operating expenses represent costs of service and other costs incurred to operate CBIZ’s business units and are primarily comprised of personnel
costs and occupancy related expenses. Personnel costs include base compensation, commissions, payroll taxes, gains or losses earned on assets of the deferred compensation plan, and benefits, which are recognized as expense as they are incurred.
Personnel costs also include share-based and incentive compensation costs, which are estimated and accrued on a monthly basis. The ultimate determination of incentive compensation is made after year-end results are finalized. Total personnel costs
were $475.7 million, $481.7 million and $482.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The largest
components of occupancy costs are rent expense and utilities. Base rent expense is recognized over respective lease terms, while utilities and common area maintenance charges are recognized as incurred. Total occupancy costs were $44.4 million,
$45.5 million, and $45.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Operating Leases 
CBIZ leases certain of its office facilities and equipment under various operating leases. Rent expense under such leases is recognized evenly throughout
the term of the lease obligation when the total lease commitment is a known amount, and recorded on a cash basis when future rent payment increases under the obligation are unknown due to rent escalations being tied to factors that are not currently
measurable (such as increases in the consumer price index). Differences between rent expense recognized and the cash payments required under operating lease agreements are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as other non-current liabilities.
 CBIZ may receive incentives to lease office facilities in certain areas. Such incentives are recorded as a deferred credit and recognized as
a reduction to rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  Share-Based Awards 
The measurement and recognition of compensation cost for all stock-based payment awards made to employees and non-employee directors is based on the fair
value of the award. Accordingly, CBIZ recognizes stock-based compensation costs for only those shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award, which is generally the option vesting term of up to four
years. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in the consolidated statements of operations as operating expenses or corporate general and administrative expenses, depending on where the respective individual’s compensation is recorded.
 New Accounting Pronouncements  In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-08 (“ASU 2011-08”) “Intangibles –
Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment”, which provides an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step test for goodwill impairment. If an entity
believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the 
  F-13



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

quantitative two-step impairment test is required; otherwise, no further testing is required. The more likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. ASU
2011-08 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. For the annual impairment tests performed during the fourth quarter of 2011, CBIZ adopted the provisions of ASU 2011-08. 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05 (“ASU 2011-05”) “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive
Income”, which states that comprehensive income should be presented in either one or two consecutive financial statements. Companies will have the option to either present other comprehensive income on the same statement as net income, or as a
separate statement that immediately follows the statement of net income. ASU 2011-05 is effective for the first reporting period after December 15, 2011, and should be applied retrospectively. Currently, other comprehensive income is presented
in the notes to CBIZ’s consolidated financial statements and the adoption of ASU 2011-05 will result in CBIZ presenting other comprehensive income on the consolidated statements of operations. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04 (“ASU 2011-04”) “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Amendments to Achieve Common fair
Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.” ASU 2011-04 provides a consistent definition of fair value to ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are
similar between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-04 does not extend the use of fair value, but rather provides additional disclosure guidance about the application of fair value in those areas where fair value is
already required or permitted, especially for Level 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for the first reporting period after December 15, 2011. The amendments of this ASU will be applied prospectively, and early adoption is not
permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2011-04, but currently believes there will be no significant impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
 


2.
Accounts Receivable, Net 
Accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in thousands): 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Trade accounts receivable
  
$
113,143
  
 
$
119,205
  

 Unbilled revenue, at net realizable value
  
 
33,150
  
 
 
29,483
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total accounts receivable
  
 
146,293
  
 
 
148,688
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
(9,220
) 
 
 
(10,620
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accounts receivable, net
  
$
137,073
  
 
$
138,068
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


3.
Property and Equipment, Net 
Property and equipment, net at December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Buildings and leasehold improvements
  
$
19,155
  
 
$
17,274
  

 Furniture and fixtures
  
 
23,858
  
 
 
23,662
  

 Capitalized software
  
 
44,035
  
 
 
43,787
  

 Equipment
  
 
18,899
  
 
 
18,399
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total property and equipment
  
 
105,947
  
 
 
103,122
  

 Accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
(84,145
) 
 
 
(79,227
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
21,802
  
 
$
23,895
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-14



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Operating expenses
  
$
6,239
  
  
$
6,924
  
  
$
7,349
  

 Corporate general and administrative expenses
  
 
339
  
  
 
376
  
  
 
504
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total depreciation and amortization expense
  
$
6,578
  
  
$
7,300
  
  
$
7,853
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Included in total depreciation and amortization expense is amortization of capitalized software of $2.0 million, $2.2
million and $2.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   


4.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net 
The components of goodwill and other intangible assets, net at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in thousands):
  












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Goodwill
  
$
377,281
  
 
$
344,086
  

 Intangibles:
  



 




 Client lists
  
 
128,537
  
 
 
117,029
  

 Other intangibles
  
 
9,826
  
 
 
9,506
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total intangibles
  
 
138,363
  
 
 
126,535
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total goodwill and other intangibles assets
  
 
515,644
  
 
 
470,621
  

 Accumulated amortization:
  



 




 Client lists
  
 
(50,969
) 
 
 
(39,206
) 

 Other intangibles
  
 
(6,335
) 
 
 
(5,005
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total accumulated amortization
  
 
(57,304
) 
 
 
(44,211
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets, net
  
$
458,340
  
 
$
426,410
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Goodwill 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in thousands):
  
























 
  
FinancialServices
 
 
EmployeeServices
 
 
MedicalManagementProfessionals
 
  
NationalPractices
 
  
TotalGoodwill
 

 December 31, 2009
  
$
158,255
  
 
$
71,424
  
 
$
59,775
  
  
$
1,666
  
  
$
291,120
  

 Additions
  
 
45,186
  
 
 
7,708
  
 
 
72
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
52,966
  

 Divestitures
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
  
$
203,441
  
 
$
79,132
  
 
$
59,847
  
  
$
1,666
  
  
$
344,086
  

 Additions
  
 
30,002
  
 
 
5,645
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
35,647
  

 Divestitures
  
 
(280
) 
 
 
(2,172
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(2,452
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31, 2011
  
$
233,163
  
 
$
82,605
  
 
$
59,847
  
  
$
1,666
  
  
$
377,281
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-15



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Businesses acquired during 2011 resulted in additions to goodwill of approximately $16.9 million, of
which $11.2 million recorded in the Financial Services practice group related to the acquisitions of Thompson Dunavant PLC and Gresham Smith LLC, and $5.7 million recorded in the Employee Services practice group related to the acquisitions of
Multiple Benefit Services, Inc. and Advantage Benefit Planning. Businesses acquired during 2010 resulted in additions to goodwill of approximately $34.0 million, of which $28.6 million recorded in the Financial Services practice group related to the
acquisitions of Goldstein Lewin & Company and Kirkland, Russ, Murphy & Tapp P.A., and $5.4 million recorded in the Employee Services practice group related to the acquisitions of National Benefit Alliance and South Winds, Inc. The
remaining increases in goodwill during 2011 and 2010 were a result of contingent purchase price earned by businesses acquired in prior years. Refer to Note 19 for further discussion of acquisition activities. Businesses divested during the year
ended December 31, 2011 resulted in decreases to goodwill of $2.5 million. The divestiture of the Company’s individual wealth management business, which was recorded in the Employee Services practice group, resulted in a $2.2 million
decrease in goodwill, and the divestiture of a business previously reported in the Financial Services practice group resulted in a $0.3 million decrease in goodwill.  Goodwill Impairment  During the fourth quarter of 2011, CBIZ early adopted the principles
of ASU 2011-08 in order to complete its goodwill impairment tests. In accordance with ASU 2011-08, CBIZ based its goodwill impairment testing on a qualitative assessment for each of its reporting units that carried a goodwill balance. The
qualitative assessment included an in-depth analysis of many factors, including general economic conditions, industry and market conditions, a broad scope of financial factors, the Company’s weighted average cost of capital, changes in
management and key personnel, the Company’s price of its common stock, as well as other drivers of a fair value analysis. As a result of the Company’s qualitative assessment, it was concluded that it was more-likely-than-not that the fair
value of each of its reporting units was greater than its carrying value.  As part of the goodwill impairment testing that was performed in
the fourth quarter of 2010, it was noted that two reporting units, CBIZ Payroll and Medical Management Professionals (“MMP”), were tested in detail applying Step One procedures due to a decline in the performance of each reporting unit.
The Step One procedures utilized a combination of the discounted cash flow method (income approach) and the market comparable method (market approach). As a result of the Step One procedures in the fourth quarter of 2010, it was concluded that these
two reporting units were not impaired and the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by at least 25%. During the goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2011, these two reporting units were closely analyzed. CBIZ
Payroll financial results have improved over the past year and is expected to continue to improve during 2012 and beyond, thus CBIZ Payroll is not considered to be at risk for impairment. However, MMP has continued to face economic pressures.
Several cost cutting measures were put into place during the year ended December 31, 2011 to mitigate the MMP pricing and performance pressures. Taking into consideration the Company’s efforts to control costs and obtain market share, as
well as the other qualitative factors that were described above as part of the fourth quarter 2011 goodwill impairment testing procedures, the Company has concluded that the fair value of MMP is more-likely-than-not to be greater than its carrying
value.  Client Lists and Other Intangibles  At December 31, 2011, the weighted average amortization period remaining for total intangible assets was 5.2 years. Client lists are amortized over their expected periods of benefit not to exceed ten
years, and had a weighted-average amortization period of 5.2 years remaining at December 31, 2011. Other intangibles, which consist primarily of non-compete agreements and trade-names, are amortized over periods ranging from two to ten years,
and had a weighted-average amortization period of 4.1 years remaining at December 31, 2011. 
  F-16



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

Amortization expense related to client lists and other intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Operating expenses
  
$
13,750
  
  
$
13,016
  
  
$
12,476
  

 Corporate general and administrative expenses
  
 
17
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
167
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total amortization expense
  
$
13,767
  
  
$
13,032
  
  
$
12,643
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Amortization expense for existing client lists and other intangible assets for each of the next five years ending
December 31 is estimated to be (in thousands):   








 2012
  
$
13,913
  


  
  
  
 

 2013
  
$
12,931
  


  
  
  
 

 2014
  
$
12,371
  


  
  
  
 

 2015
  
$
11,565
  


  
  
  
 

 2016
  
$
10,053
  


  
  
  
 
 Future amortization expense excludes the impact of events that may occur subsequent to December 31, 2011, including
acquisitions and divestitures.   


5.
Financial Instruments 
The carrying amounts of CBIZ’s cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value because
of the short maturity of these instruments. The carrying value of bank debt approximates fair value, as the interest rate on the bank debt is variable and approximates current market rates. The fair value of CBIZ’s convertible senior
subordinated notes is based upon quoted market prices. These convertible senior subordinated notes have fixed interest rates and conversion features which are based upon the market value of CBIZ’s common stock. Therefore, the fair value of the
convertible senior subordinated notes will fluctuate as market rates of interest and the market value of CBIZ’s common stock fluctuate. 
Concentrations of Credit Risk  Financial
instruments that may subject CBIZ to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. CBIZ places its cash and cash equivalents with highly-rated financial institutions, limiting the amount of
credit exposure with any one financial institution. CBIZ’s client base consists of large numbers of geographically diverse customers dispersed throughout the United States; thus, concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable
is not considered significant.  Bonds  CBIZ held corporate and municipal bonds with par values totaling $29.4 million and $14.6 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. All bonds are investment grade and are classified as
available-for-sale. CBIZ’s bonds have maturity dates or callable dates ranging from January 2012 through December 2016, and are included in “Funds held for clients — current” on the consolidated balance sheets based

  F-17



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

on the intent and ability of the Company to sell these investments at any time under favorable conditions. The following table summarizes CBIZ’s bond activity for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Fair value at January 1
  
$
15,255
  
 
$
9,500
  

 Purchases
  
 
19,643
  
 
 
15,840
  

 Sales
  
 
(3,000
) 
 
 
(5,935
) 

 Maturities and calls
  
 
(1,916
) 
 
 
(4,765
) 

 Increase in bond premium
  
 
914
  
 
 
615
  

 Gain from fair market value adjustment
  
 
27
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value at December 31
  
$
30,923
  
 
$
15,255
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”)  During the year ended December 31, 2011, CBIZ sold its three investments in ARS and recorded a loss of approximately $0.1 million in “Other income (loss), net” on the consolidated
statements of operations. At December 31, 2011, CBIZ had no remaining investments in ARS.  At December 31, 2010, CBIZ held three
investments in ARS with par values totaling $13.4 million and fair values totaling $10.2 million. The difference between par value and fair value for two of the ARS were deemed to be temporary and were recorded as unrealized losses in other
comprehensive loss (“OCL”), net of tax. The decline in fair value of the remaining ARS was determined to be other-than-temporary, thus losses associated with this ARS were bifurcated into either credit loss or other market impairment.
Credit losses were recorded in “Other income, net” on the consolidated statements of operations, and other market impairment was recorded as unrealized losses in OCL, net of tax. Due to the failed auctions and the uncertainty regarding the
liquidity of these securities, CBIZ classified its investments in auction-rate securities as funds held for clients – non-current in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010. The maturity dates for these ARS investments
ranged from October, 2037 through February, 2042. See Note 6 for further discussion regarding the ARS and related fair values.  Interest
Rate Swaps  CBIZ uses interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk exposure primarily through converting portions of floating rate debt
under the credit facility to a fixed rate basis. These agreements involved the receipt or payment of floating rate amounts in exchange for fixed rate interest payments over the life of the agreements without an exchange of the underlying principal
amounts. CBIZ does not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Each of CBIZ’s interest rate swaps was
designated as a cash flow hedge. Accordingly, the interest rate swaps were recorded as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Changes in fair value were recorded as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive loss (“AOCL”), net of tax, to the extent the swaps were effective. Amounts recorded to AOCL were reclassified to interest expense as interest on the underlying debt was recognized. Amounts due related to the swaps were
recorded as adjustments to interest expense when incurred or payable.  At inception, the critical terms of the interest rate swaps matched the
underlying risks being hedged, and as such the interest rate swaps were expected to be highly effective in offsetting fluctuations in the designated interest payments resulting from changes in the benchmark interest rate. The interest rate swaps
were assessed for 
  F-18



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

effectiveness and continued qualification for hedge accounting on a quarterly basis. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, all interest rate swaps were deemed to be highly
effective.  As a result of the use of derivative instruments, CBIZ was exposed to risks that the counterparties would fail to meet their
contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, CBIZ only entered into contracts with selected major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and continually assessed the creditworthiness of
counterparties. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, all of the counterparties to CBIZ’s interest rate swaps had investment grade ratings. There were no credit risk-related contingent features in CBIZ’s interest rate swaps nor did the
swaps contain provisions under which the Company would be required to post collateral.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, each of the
interest rate swaps was classified as a liability derivative. The following table summarizes CBIZ’s outstanding interest rate swaps and their classification on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010
(in thousands).   
















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

  
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
FairValue(c)
 
 
Balance SheetLocation
 

 Interest rate swaps(a)
  
$
40,000
  
  
$
(670
) 
 
 
Other non-current liabilities
  
  
















 
  
December 31, 2010
 

  
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
FairValue(c)
 
 
Balance SheetLocation
 

 Interest rate swaps(b)
  
$
20,000
  
  
$
(16
) 
 
 
Other current liabilities
  
  


(a)
Represents interest rate swap with a notional value of $40.0 million, of which $25.0 million will expire in June 2014 and the remaining $15.0 million will expire in
June 2015. Under the terms of the interest rate swap, CBIZ pays interest at a fixed rate of 1.41% plus applicable margin as stated in the agreement, and receives interest that varies with the three-month LIBOR. 
 


(b)
Represents two interest rate swaps, each with a notional value of $10.0 million and terms of two years that expired in January, 2011. Under the terms of the interest
rate swaps, CBIZ paid interest at a fixed rate of 1.55% and 1.59%, respectively, plus applicable margin under the credit agreement, and received or paid interest that varied with the three-month LIBOR. 
 


(c)
See additional disclosures regarding fair value measurements in Note 6.  The following table summarizes the effects of interest rate swaps on CBIZ’s consolidated statements of operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands).
  
























 
  
(Loss)Gain Recognized inAOCL, net of tax
 
  
Loss Reclassifiedfrom AOCL into
Expense
 

 
  
Twelve Months EndedDecember 31,
 
  
    Twelve Months Ended    December 
31,
 
  
 
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Location
 

 Interest rate swaps
  
$
(412
) 
 
$
110
  
  
$
266
  
  
$
252
  
  
 
Interest expense
  
  


6.
Fair Value Measurements 
The valuation hierarchy under GAAP categorizes assets and liabilities measured at fair value into one of three different levels
depending on the observability of the inputs employed in the measurement. The three levels are defined as follows:   


•
 
 Level 1 — inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.

  F-19



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   


•
 
 Level 2 — inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.   


•
 
 Level 3 — inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and are significant to the fair value measurement.
 A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is
significant to the fair value measurement. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or
liability. The following table summarizes CBIZ’s assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 that are measured at fair
value on a recurring basis subsequent to initial recognition, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine such fair value (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Level
 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Deferred compensation plan assets
  
 
1
  
  
$
33,585
  
 
$
33,361
  

 Corporate and municipal bonds
  
 
1
  
  
$
30,923
  
 
$
15,255
  

 Interest rate swaps
  
 
2
  
  
$
(670
) 
 
$
(16
) 

 Auction rate securities
  
 
3
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
10,216
  

 Contingent purchase price liabilities
  
 
3
  
  
$
(25,325
) 
 
$
(17,265
) 
 For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were no transfers between the valuation hierarchy Levels 1, 2
and 3. The following table summarizes the change in fair values of the Company’s assets and liabilities identified as Level 3 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (pre-tax basis, in thousands): 
 












 
  
Auction RateSecurities
 
 
ContingentPurchasePrice Payable
 

 Beginning balance — January 1, 2010
  
$
10,545
  
 
$
(5,575
) 

 Additions from business acquisitions
  
 
—
  
 
 
(16,327
) 

 Payment of contingent purchase price payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
3,298
  

 Impairment included in other income, net
  
 
(263
) 
 
 
—
  

 Unrealized losses included in accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(68
) 
 
 
—
  

 Change in fair value of contingency
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,516
  

 Change in net present value of contingency
  
 
—
  
 
 
(177
) 

 Increase in expected cash flows of OTTI investment
  
 
2
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — December 31, 2010
  
$
10,216
  
 
$
(17,265
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Additions from business acquisitions
  
 
—
  
 
 
(13,404
) 

 Sales of auction rate securities
  
 
(10,980
) 
 
 
—
  

 Payment of contingent purchase price payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
2,051
  

 Unrealized gains included in accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
664
  
 
 
—
  

 Change in fair value of contingency
  
 
—
  
 
 
3,479
  

 Change in net present value of contingency
  
 
—
  
 
 
(186
) 

 Increase in expected cash flows of OTTI investment
  
 
100
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — December 31, 2011
  
$
—
  
 
$
(25,325
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-20



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Auction Rate Securities — During the year ended December 31, 2011, CBIZ sold all of its
investments in ARS and as a result, realized a gain of approximately $0.1 million in “Other income, net” and reversed prior period unrealized losses of $0.7 million. Prior to the sale of the remaining ARS, CBIZ classified its investments
in ARS as Level 3 due to the lack of quoted prices from broker-dealers and the inactive markets for ARS. Accordingly, a fair value assessment of these securities was performed on each security based on a discounted cash flow model utilizing various
assumptions that included maximum interest rates for each issue, probabilities of successful auctions, failed auctions or default, the timing of cash flows, the quality and level of collateral of the securities, and the rate of recovery from bond
insurers in the event of default.  At December 31, 2010, CBIZ held three investments in ARS with par values totaling $13.4 million. For
two of the ARS, the declines in fair values were considered to be temporary. At December 31, 2010, the par value and fair value of these two ARS was $8.4 million and $7.7 million, respectively. The decrease in fair value of $0.1 million during
the year ended December 31, 2010 was recorded as unrealized losses in other comprehensive loss, net of tax. For both of these ARS investments, CBIZ determined that the impairment was temporary due to dislocation in the credit markets, the
quality of the investments and their underlying collateral, and the probability of a passed auction or redemption in the future, considering the issuers’ ability to refinance if necessary. These two ARS with temporary declines in fair value
were classified as “Funds held for clients — non-current”, as CBIZ expected to sell these investments upon the anticipated recovery of par value. The par value of the remaining ARS was $5.0 million and the carrying value was $2.5
million at December 31, 2010. The decline in fair value of $0.3 million in 2010 was determined to be other-than-temporary and was due to the credit worthiness of the underlying bond issuer. Accordingly, CBIZ recorded an impairment charge
totaling $0.3 million, which was included in “Other income, net” for the year ended December 31, 2010.  The following table
provides a rollforward of the pre-tax credit losses recognized in earnings related to this ARS for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands): 
 








 
  
AccumulatedCredit Losses
 

 Balance at January 1, 2010
  
$
1,871
  

 Additions related to OTTI losses not previously recognized
  
 
—
  

 Reductions due to sales
  
 
—
  

 Reductions due to change in intent or likelihood of sale
  
 
—
  

 Additions due to increases in previously recognized OTTI losses
  
 
263
  

 Reductions due to increases in expected cash flows
  
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
2,132
  

 Cumulative adjustment to retained earnings at adoption
  
 
—
  

 Additions related to OTTI losses not previously recognized
  
 
—
  

 Reductions due to sales
  
 
—
  

 Reductions due to sales of OTTI investment
  
 
(2,256
) 

 Additions due to increases in previously recognized OTTI losses
  
 
124
  

 Reductions due to increases in expected cash flows
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
 —
  


  
  
  
 

  F-21



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
All ARS with temporary impairments have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for greater than
twelve months. The following table provides additional information with regards to the ARS with temporary impairments (in thousands):   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
12 Months or Greater
 
  
12 Months of Greater
 

 Description of Security
  
FairValue
 
  
UnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 
  
UnrealizedLosses
 

 Auction rate securities
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
7,716
  
  
$
664
  
 Contingent Purchase Price Payable—Contingent purchase price liabilities result from business acquisitions
made after January 1, 2009, and are classified as Level 3 due to the utilization of a probability weighted discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair value of the contingency. The contingent purchase price liabilities are included in
“Other current liabilities” and “Accrued expenses — non-current”, depending on the expected settlement date. As a result of business acquisitions, CBIZ increased its contingent purchase price payable by $13.4 million and
$16.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Reductions to the payable are due to payments made of $2.1 million and $3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and
adjustments of $3.5 million and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as a result of a change in the estimate of future contingent liabilities.  The following table presents financial instruments that are not carried at fair value but which require fair value disclosure as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands): 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
CarryingValue
 
  
FairValue
 
  
CarryingValue
 
  
FairValue
 

 2006 Notes
  
$
750
  
  
$
750
  
  
$
39,250
  
  
$
40,050
  

 2010 Notes
  
$
119,028
  
  
$
141,690
  
  
$
116,577
  
  
$
141,670
  
 Although the trading of CBIZ’s 2006 Notes and 2010 Notes is limited, the fair value was determined based upon their
most recent quoted market price. The Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount. See Note 8 for further discussion of CBIZ’s debt instruments. 
 


7.
Income Taxes 
For financial reporting purposes, income from continuing operations before income taxes includes the following components (in
thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 United States
  
$
46,790
  
  
$
44,993
  
  
$
51,703
  

 Foreign (Canada)
  
 
177
  
  
 
179
  
  
 
172
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
46,967
  
  
$
45,172
  
  
$
51,875
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-22



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Income tax expense (benefit) included in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Continuing operations:
  



 



 




 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
17,645
  
 
$
15,789
  
 
$
17,092
  

 Foreign
  
 
34
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
64
  

 State and local
  
 
3,709
  
 
 
3,232
  
 
 
2,523
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
21,388
  
 
 
19,089
  
 
 
19,679
  

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
(2,580
) 
 
 
(2,137
) 
 
 
422
  

 State and local
  
 
(425
) 
 
 
65
  
 
 
(278
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
(3,005
) 
 
 
(2,072
) 
 
 
144
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense from continuing operations
  
 
18,383
  
 
 
17,017
  
 
 
19,823
  

 Discontinued operations:
  



 



 




 Operations of discontinued operations:
  



 



 




 Current
  
 
(472
) 
 
 
(1,733
) 
 
 
(790
) 

 Deferred
  
 
106
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
101
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
(366
) 
 
 
(1,740
) 
 
 
(689
) 

 Gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations:
  



 



 




 Current
  
 
193
  
 
 
(812
) 
 
 
140
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax benefit from discontinued operations
  
 
(173
) 
 
 
(2,552
) 
 
 
(549
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense
  
$
18,210
  
 
$
14,465
  
 
$
19,274
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The provision for income taxes attributable to income from continuing operations differed from the amount obtained by
applying the federal statutory income tax rate to income from continuing operations before income taxes, as follows (in thousands, except percentages):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Tax at statutory rate (35%)
  
$
16,438
  
 
$
15,810
  
 
$
18,156
  

 State taxes (net of federal benefit)
  
 
2,044
  
 
 
1,875
  
 
 
1,624
  

 Business meals and entertainment — non-deductible
  
 
659
  
 
 
627
  
 
 
663
  

 Reserves for uncertain tax positions
  
 
(813
) 
 
 
(1,359
) 
 
 
(304
) 

 Other, net
  
 
55
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
(316
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision for income taxes from continuing operations
  
$
18,383
  
 
$
17,017
  
 
$
19,823
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective income tax rate
  
 
39.1
% 
 
 
37.7
% 
 
 
38.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The income tax benefits associated with the exercise of non-qualified stock options and restricted stock awards and
reflected in additional paid-in-capital were $0.1 million, $0.1 million and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  F-23



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to significant portions of the deferred tax
assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were as follows (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Net operating loss carryforwards .
  
$
2,807
  
 
$
2,434
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
2,484
  
 
 
2,510
  

 Employee benefits and compensation
  
 
20,773
  
 
 
19,590
  

 Lease costs
  
 
3,667
  
 
 
3,835
  

 State tax credit carryforwards
  
 
2,443
  
 
 
2,407
  

 Asset impairments
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,272
  

 Installment sales
  
 
1,166
  
 
 
1,855
  

 Other deferred tax assets
  
 
2,104
  
 
 
2,549
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross deferred tax assets
  
 
35,444
  
 
 
36,452
  

 Less: valuation allowance
  
 
(2,363
) 
 
 
(2,271
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets, net
  
$
33,081
  
 
$
34,181
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Property and equipment depreciation
  
$
434
  
 
$
1,111
  

 Accrued interest
  
 
10,611
  
 
 
16,649
  

 Client list amortization
  
 
6,070
  
 
 
5,325
  

 Goodwill and other intangibles
  
 
7,897
  
 
 
5,528
  

 Other deferred tax liabilities
  
 
1,906
  
 
 
495
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross deferred tax liabilities
  
$
26,918
  
 
$
29,108
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax asset
  
$
6,163
  
 
$
5,073
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 CBIZ has established valuation allowances for portions of the state net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards
and state income tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The net increase in the valuation allowance for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $0.1 million primarily related to changes in the valuation
allowance for state income tax credit carryforwards. The net decrease in the valuation allowance for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $1.1 million primarily related to changes in the valuation allowances for state NOL carryforwards.
 In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers all available positive and negative evidence, including projected
future taxable income, scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, historical financial operations and tax planning strategies. Based upon review of these items, management believes it is more-likely-than-not that the Company will realize the
benefits of these deferred tax assets, net of the existing valuation allowances.  CBIZ and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the
United States, Canada, and most state jurisdictions. In October 2010, the Internal Revenue Service completed its audit of the Company’s 2007 federal income tax return. The Company received a refund of $0.2 million in early 2011 related to the
settlement of the audit. CBIZ’s federal income tax returns for years ending prior to January 1, 2008 are no longer subject to examination. With limited exceptions, CBIZ’s state and local income tax returns and non-U.S. income tax
returns are no longer subject to tax authority examinations for years ending prior to January 1, 2007 and January 1, 2006, respectively. 
  F-24



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
The availability of NOL’s is reported as deferred tax assets, net of applicable valuation
allowances, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2011, the Company has state net operating loss carryforwards of $60.0 million, state tax credit carryforwards of $2.4 million and an alternative minimum tax credit
carryforward of $0.1 million. The state net operating loss carryforwards expire on various dates between 2012 and 2029 and the state tax credit carryforwards expire on various dates between 2018 and 2026. The alternative minimum tax credit
carryforward has no expiration date.  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in
thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance at January 1
  
$
4,794
  
 
$
6,103
  
 
$
6,254
  

 Additions for tax positions of the current year
  
 
188
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
229
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
103
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Reclassification from other balance sheet accounts
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
193
  

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(260
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Settlements
  
 
—
  
 
 
(217
) 
 
 
(196
) 

 Lapse of statutes of limitation
  
 
(846
) 
 
 
(1,817
) 
 
 
(377
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31
  
$
3,979
  
 
$
4,794
  
 
$
6,103
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011, are $3.0 million of unrecognized tax
benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. The Company believes it is reasonably possible that certain of these unrecognized tax benefits could change in the next twelve months. CBIZ expects reductions in the liability for
unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $0.9 million within the next twelve months due to expiration of statutes of limitation. Given the number of years that are currently subject to examination, the Company is unable to estimate the range of
potential adjustments to the remaining balance of unrecognized tax benefits at this time.  CBIZ recognizes interest income, interest expense,
and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. During 2011, the Company accrued interest expense of $0.2 million and, as of December 31, 2011, had recognized a liability for interest expense and
penalties of $0.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively, relating to unrecognized tax benefits. During 2010 the Company accrued interest expense of $0.2 million and, as of December 31, 2010, had recognized a liability for interest expense and
penalties of $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, relating to unrecognized tax benefits.   


8.
Borrowing Arrangements 
CBIZ has two primary debt arrangements at December 31, 2011 that provide the Company with the capital to meet its working capital
needs as well as the flexibility to continue with its strategic initiatives, including business acquisitions and share repurchases: the 2010 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes (“2010 Notes”) totaling $130 million and a $275 million
unsecured credit facility. A third debt arrangement, the 2006 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes (“2006 Notes”), has been significantly reduced as a result of the repurchase of most of the outstanding 2006 Notes, as is discussed more
fully below.  2010 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes  On September 27, 2010, CBIZ sold and issued $130.0 million of 2010 Notes to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2010 Notes are direct,
unsecured, senior 
  F-25



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

subordinated obligations of CBIZ and rank (i) junior in right of payment to all of CBIZ’s existing and future senior indebtedness, (ii) equal in right of payment with any other
future senior subordinated indebtedness, and (iii) senior in right of payment to all existing and future obligations, if any, that are designated as subordinated to the 2010 Notes. In connection with the issuance and sale of the 2010 Notes,
CBIZ entered into an indenture (the “2010 Indenture”) dated as of September 27, 2010, with U.S. Bank National Association as trustee.  The terms of the 2010 Notes are governed by the 2010 Indenture. The 2010 Notes bear interest at a rate of 4.875% per annum, payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 2011. The 2010 Notes mature on October 1, 2015 unless earlier redeemed, repurchased or converted. The 2010 Notes are convertible into CBIZ common stock at a rate equal to 134.9255 shares per $1,000 principal amount of
the 2010 Notes (equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $7.41 per share), subject to adjustment as described in the 2010 Indenture. Upon conversion, CBIZ will deliver for each $1,000 principal amount of 2010 Notes, an amount consisting
of cash equal to the lesser of $1,000 or the conversion value (as defined in the 2010 Indenture) and, to the extent that the conversion value exceeds $1,000, at CBIZ’s election or as required by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, cash or
shares of CBIZ common stock in respect to the remainder.  If CBIZ undergoes a “fundamental change” (as defined in the 2010
Indenture), holders of the 2010 Notes will have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require CBIZ to repurchase for cash all or a portion of their 2010 Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2010 Notes to be
repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, including additional amounts, if any.  CBIZ separately accounts for the debt and equity
components of the 2010 Notes. The carrying amount of the debt and equity components at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follow (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Principal amount of notes
  
$
130,000
  
 
$
130,000
  

 Unamortized discount
  
 
(10,972
) 
 
 
(13,423
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net carrying amount
  
$
119,028
  
 
$
116,577
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Additional paid-in-capital, net of tax
  
$
8,555
  
 
$
8,555
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The discount on the liability component of the 2010 Notes is being amortized using the effective interest method based
upon an annual effective rate of 7.5%, which represents the market rate for similar debt without a conversion option at the issuance date. The discount is being amortized over the term of the 2010 Notes which is five years from the date of issuance.
At December 31, 2011, the unamortized discount had a remaining amortization period of approximately 45 months.  2006 Convertible
Senior Subordinated Notes  On May 30, 2006, CBIZ sold and issued $100.0 million in convertible senior subordinated notes. These
2006 Notes are direct, unsecured, senior subordinated obligations of CBIZ and rank (i) junior in right of payment to all of CBIZ’s existing and future senior indebtedness, (ii) equal in right of payment with any other future senior
subordinated indebtedness, and (iii) senior in right of payment to all subordinated indebtedness. The terms of the 2006 Notes are governed by the Indenture dated as of May 30, 2006, with U.S. Bank National Association as trustee
(“2006 Indenture”). The 2006 Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.125% per annum, payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on each June 1 and December 1. The 2006 Notes are convertible into CBIZ common stock at a rate equal to
94.1035 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the 2006 Notes (equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $10.63 per share), subject to adjustment as described in the 2006 Indenture. Upon conversion,

  F-26



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

CBIZ will deliver for each $1,000 principal amount of 2006 Notes, an amount consisting of cash equal to the lesser of $1,000 and the conversion value (as defined in the 2006 Indenture) and, to
the extent that the conversion value exceeds $1,000, at CBIZ’s election, cash or shares of CBIZ common stock in respect of the remainder. 
On September 27, 2010, concurrent with the closing of the 2010 Notes, CBIZ repurchased $60.0 million of the 2006 Notes. The 2006 Notes were
purchased at par through privately negotiated transactions and resulted in a non-cash pre-tax loss of approximately $2.0 million, primarily as a result of the write-off of the unamortized discount and the unamortized deferred debt costs related to
the $60.0 million of 2006 Notes. The $2.0 million pre-tax loss was recorded in other income, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. On June 1, 2011, the note holders provided notice
to the Company to redeem an additional $39.3 million of the 2006 Notes. The 2006 Notes were settled in cash for the principal amount and any accrued and unpaid interest. The remaining $750,000 of 2006 Notes may be redeemed by CBIZ at any time until
the due date of June 1, 2026. In addition, holders of the 2006 Notes will have the right to require CBIZ to repurchase for cash all or a portion of their 2006 Notes on June 1, 2016 and June 1, 2021, at a repurchase price equal to 100%
of the principal amount of the 2006 Notes to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and additional amounts, if any, up to but not including, the date of repurchase. At December 31, 2011, the 2006 Notes
were classified as a non-current liability since the remaining note holders cannot cause the redemption of their notes until June 1, 2016. 
CBIZ separately accounts for the debt and equity components of the 2006 Notes. The carrying amount of the debt and equity components at December 31,
2011 and 2010 were as follow (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Principal amount of notes
  
$
750
  
  
$
40,000
  

 Unamortized discount
  
 
—
  
  
 
(750
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net carrying amount
  
$
750
  
  
$
39,250
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Additional paid-in-capital, net of tax
  
$
11,425
  
  
$
11,425
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, CBIZ recognized interest expense on the 2010 Notes and the
2006 Notes as follows (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Contractual coupon interest
  
$
6,873
  
  
$
4,290
  

 Amortization of discount
  
 
3,201
  
  
 
4,210
  

 Amortization of deferred financing costs
  
 
809
  
  
 
630
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest expense
  
$
10,883
  
  
$
9,130
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Bank Debt 
Effective June 4, 2010, CBIZ entered into a new credit agreement with Bank of America as agent for a group of seven participating banks under which
CBIZ maintains a $275 million unsecured credit facility (“credit facility”). On September 14, 2010, CBIZ amended its credit facility to allow CBIZ to consummate the buy back and option transactions with CBIZ’s largest shareholder
(see Note 14), to issue new senior subordinated convertible notes (see 2010 Notes above), and use up to $30 million of the proceeds from the new convertible notes to repurchase shares of common stock concurrent with the new convertible note
transaction. In addition, the amendment increased the total and senior leverage ratios to accommodate these transactions and also to allow CBIZ to 
  F-27



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

continue its strategic growth strategy which includes future acquisitions. On April 11, 2011, the credit facility was further amended to extend the maturity date one year to June 2015,
reduce interest on outstanding balances, reduce commitment fees on the unused amount, and adjust the leverage ratio limits to provide CBIZ with more flexibility.  The balance outstanding under the credit facility was $145.0 million and $118.9 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Rates for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as
follows:   








 
  
2011
 
2010

 Weighted average rates
  
3.27%
 
3.66%


  
  
 
  

 Range of effective rates
  
2.43% - 5.75%
 
2.71% - 6.40%


  
  
 
  
 CBIZ had approximately $53.5 million of available funds under the credit facility at December 31, 2011. Available
funds under the credit facility are based on a multiple of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization as defined in the credit facility, and are reduced by letters of credit and outstanding borrowings on the credit facility.
Under the credit facility, loans are charged an interest rate consisting of a base rate or Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin, letters of credit are charged based on the same applicable margin, and a commitment fee is charged on the unused
portion of the credit facility.  The credit facility provides CBIZ operating flexibility and funding to support seasonal working capital needs
and other strategic initiatives such as acquisitions and share repurchases. The credit facility is subject to certain financial covenants that may limit CBIZ’s ability to borrow up to the total commitment amount. Covenants require CBIZ to meet
certain requirements with respect to (i) minimum net worth; (ii) maximum total and senior leverage ratios; and (iii) a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. As of December 31, 2011, CBIZ believes it is in compliance with its debt
covenants. The credit facility also places restrictions on CBIZ’s ability to create liens or other encumbrances, to make certain payments, investments, loans and guarantees and to sell or otherwise dispose of a substantial portion of assets, or
to merge or consolidate with an unaffiliated entity. According to the terms of the credit facility, CBIZ is not permitted to declare or make any dividend payments, other than dividend payments made by one of its wholly owned subsidiaries to the
parent company. The credit facility contains a provision that, in the event of a defined change in control, the credit facility may be terminated.   


9.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in thousands): 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, net of income tax expense (benefit) of $14 and ($266),
respectively
  
$
20
  
 
$
(394
) 

 Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting for other-than-temporary impaired investments, net of income tax benefit of
$149
  
 
—
  
 
 
(223
) 

 Net unrealized loss on interest rate swap, net of income tax benefit of $248 and $5, respectively
  
 
(422
) 
 
 
(11
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(377
) 
 
 
(312
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
$
(779
) 
 
$
(940
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-28



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   


10.
Lease Commitments 
Operating Leases  CBIZ
leases certain of its office facilities and equipment under various operating leases. Future minimum cash commitments under operating leases as of December 31, 2011 were as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 Year Ending December 31,
  
GrossOperating LeaseCommitments(1)
 
  
Sub-Leases(2)
 
  
Net Operating LeaseCommitments(1)
 

 2012
  
$
38,599
  
  
$
4,167
  
  
$
34,432
  

 2013
  
 
32,412
  
  
 
1,353
  
  
 
31,059
  

 2014
  
 
24,283
  
  
 
1,064
  
  
 
23,219
  

 2015
  
 
20,683
  
  
 
867
  
  
 
19,816
  

 2016
  
 
18,838
  
  
 
699
  
  
 
18,139
  

 Thereafter
  
 
25,348
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
25,348
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
160,163
  
  
$
8,150
  
  
$
152,013
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
    


(1)
Includes lease commitments accrued in the consolidation and integration reserve as of December 31, 2011 as further described in Note 12. 
 


(2)
A substantial portion of the sub-leases relate to restructuring lease obligations and are reflected in the consolidation and integration reserve as further described in
Note 12.  Rent expense for continuing operations (excluding consolidation and integration charges) incurred under operating
leases was $38.8 million, $39.8 million and $40.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Rent expense does not necessarily reflect cash payments, as further described under “Operating Leases” in
Note 1.   


11.
Commitments and Contingencies 
Acquisitions  The
purchase price that CBIZ normally pays for businesses and client lists consists of two components: an up-front, non-contingent portion, and a portion which is contingent upon the acquired businesses or client lists’ actual future performance.
The fair value of the purchase price contingency is recorded at the date of acquisition and remeasured each reporting period until the liability is settled. Shares of CBIZ common stock that are issued in connection with acquisitions may be
contractually restricted from sale for periods up to two years. Acquisitions are further disclosed in Note 19.  Indemnifications
 CBIZ has various agreements in which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Generally, these
indemnification clauses are included in contracts arising in the normal course of business under which CBIZ customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations, warranties, covenants or
agreements, related to matters such as title to assets sold and certain tax matters. Payment by CBIZ under such indemnification clauses are generally conditioned upon the other party making a claim. Such claims are typically subject to challenge by
CBIZ and to dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular contract. Further, CBIZ’s obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or amount and, in some instances, CBIZ may have recourse against third
parties for certain payments made by CBIZ. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnification agreements due to the conditional nature of CBIZ’s obligations and the unique facts

  F-29



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

of each particular agreement. Historically, CBIZ has not made any payments under these agreements that have been material individually or in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2011, CBIZ was
not aware of any obligations arising under indemnification agreements that would require material payments.  Employment Agreements
 CBIZ maintains severance and employment agreements with certain of its executive officers, whereby such officers may be entitled to
payment in the event of termination of their employment. CBIZ also has arrangements with certain non-executive employees which may include severance and other employment provisions. CBIZ accrues for amounts payable under these contracts and
arrangements as triggering events occur and obligations become known. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, payments regarding such contracts and arrangements were not material. 
Letters of Credit and Guarantees  CBIZ
provides letters of credit to landlords (lessors) of its leased premises in lieu of cash security deposits which totaled $2.5 million and $3.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, CBIZ provides license bonds to
various state agencies to meet certain licensing requirements. The amount of license bonds outstanding was $1.6 million and $1.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  CBIZ acted as guarantor on various letters of credit for a CPA firm with which it has an affiliation, which totaled $5.2 million and $3.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. CBIZ has
recognized a liability for the fair value of the obligations undertaken in issuing these guarantees, which is recorded as other current liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Management does not expect any material changes to
result from these instruments as performance under the guarantees is not expected to be required.  Self-Funded Health Insurance
 CBIZ maintains a self-funded comprehensive health benefit plan. Total expenses under this program are limited by stop-loss coverages on
individually large claims. A third party administrator processes claims and payments, and CBIZ assumes responsibility for funding the plan benefits out of general assets. Employees partially contribute to the costs of covered benefits through
premium charges, deductibles and co-pays.  The third party administrator provides the Company with reports and other information which
provides a basis for the estimate of the liability at the end of each reporting period. Although management believes that it uses the best available information to determine the amount of the liability, unforeseen health claims could result in
adjustments and higher costs incurred if circumstances differ from the assumptions used in estimating the liability. The liability for the self-funded health insurance plan is included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets
and was $2.7 million and $3.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. CBIZ’s healthcare costs include health claims, administration fees to third-party administrators and premiums for stop-loss coverage. 
Legal Proceedings  In May, June, July,
August and September of 2010, CBIZ, Inc. and its subsidiary, CBIZ MHM, LLC (fka CBIZ Accounting, Tax & Advisory Services, LLC) (“the CBIZ Parties”), were named as defendants in lawsuits filed in the United States District Court
for the District of Arizona (Robert Facciola, et al v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.) and in the Superior Court for Maricopa County Arizona (Victims Recovery, LLC v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, 
  F-30



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

et al.; Roger Ashkenazi, et al v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.; Mary Marsh, et al v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.; and ML Liquidating Trust v. Mayer Hoffman McCann PC, et al.),
respectively. The Maricopa County cases were removed to the United States District Court or Bankruptcy Court and all, have since been remanded to the Superior Court for Maricopa County. Additionally, in November 2009, CBIZ MHM, LLC was named as a
defendant in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona (Jeffery C. Stone v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, et al.). The Stone case has been voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiff in that matter. 
These matters arise out of the bankruptcy proceedings related to Mortgages Ltd., a mortgage lender to developers in the Phoenix, Arizona area. Various
other professional firms not related to the Company are also defendants in these lawsuits. The motion phase of these proceedings has commenced. 
The plaintiffs, except for those in the Stone and ML Liquidating Trust cases, are all alleged to have directly or indirectly invested in real estate
mortgages through Mortgages Ltd. The Victims Recovery, Ashkenazi and Marsh plaintiffs seek monetary damages equivalent to the amounts of their investments. The plaintiff in the ML Liquidating Trust matter asserts errors and omissions and breach of
contract claims, and is seeking monetary damages. The plaintiffs in these suits also seek pre- and post-judgment interest, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees.  Mortgages Ltd. had been audited by Mayer Hoffman McCann PC (“Mayer Hoffman”), a CPA firm which has an administrative services agreement with CBIZ. The claims against the CBIZ Parties seek to
impose auditor-type liabilities upon the Company for audits it did not conduct. Specific claims include securities fraud, common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, Arizona Investment Management Act violations, control-person liability, aiding
and abetting and conspiracy. CBIZ is not a CPA firm, does not provide audits, and did not audit any of the entities at issue in these lawsuits. 
In June 2011 the Facciola court, in which the plaintiffs were seeking to certify a class of all Mortgages Ltd. investors, granted the motions to dismiss
filed by the CBIZ Parties and Mayer Hoffman. After that dismissal order, the plaintiffs’ moved the court to amend their complaint in an attempt to state a claim against the CBIZ Parties and Mayer Hoffman. In November 2011, the Facciola court
denied the plaintiffs’ request to amend the complaint as to the CBIZ Parties and Mayer Hoffman. The Facciola case is now proceeding only against the remaining defendants.  The CBIZ Parties deny all allegations of wrongdoing made against them in these actions and are vigorously defending the proceedings. The Company has been advised by Mayer Hoffman that it denies all
allegations of wrongdoing made against it and that it intends to continue vigorously defending the matters. Although the proceedings are subject to uncertainties inherent in the litigation process and the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is
not presently determinable, management believes that the allegations are without merit and that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows of the Company.  In January 2012 the CBIZ Parties were added as defendants to a lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of California for
Orange County, (Signature Financial Group, Inc., et al, v. Mayer Hoffman McCann, P.C., et al). This lawsuit arises out a review of the financial statements of Medical Capital Holdings, Inc. (“Medical Capital”) by Mayer Hoffman. In June
2009 Medical Capital was sued by the SEC and a receiver was appointed to liquidate Medical Capital. The plaintiffs in the Signature lawsuit are financial advisors that sold Medical Capital investments to their clients. Those plaintiffs were sued by
their clients for losses related to Medical Capital and now seek to recover damages from the CBIZ Parties and Mayer Hoffman for the losses and expenses they incurred in litigation with their respective clients and lost profits. The Signature lawsuit
seeks to impose auditor-type liabilities upon the CBIZ Parties for attest services they did not conduct. Specific claims include fraud, 
  F-31



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

intentional misrepresentation and concealment; negligent misrepresentation; equitable indemnity; declaratory relief and respondeat superior. 
The CBIZ Parties deny all allegations of wrongdoing made against them in the Signature lawsuit and are vigorously defending the proceeding. The Company
has been advised by Mayer Hoffman that it denies all allegations of wrongdoing made against it and that it intends to continue vigorously defending the matters. Although the proceedings are subject to uncertainties inherent in the litigation process
and the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is not presently determinable, management believes that the allegations are without merit and that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.  In addition to those items disclosed above, the Company is, from
time to time, subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the ultimate disposition of such proceedings is not presently determinable, management does not believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will
have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.   


12.
Consolidation and Integration Reserve 
CBIZ recognizes a liability for non-cancelable lease obligations at abandoned properties based upon the net present value of remaining
lease payments, net of estimated sublease payments. The liability is determined and recognized as of the cease-use date and adjustments to the liability are made for changes in estimates in the period in which a change becomes known. 
Consolidation and integration charges are comprised of expenses associated with CBIZ’s on-going efforts to consolidate operations and locations in
fragmented markets to promote and strengthen cross-serving between various practice groups. These expenses result from individual actions in several markets and are not part of a company-wide program. Consolidation and integration charges include
costs for moving facilities, non-cancelable lease obligations, adjustments to lease accruals based on changes in sublease assumptions, severance obligations, and other related expenses.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, there were no significant consolidation or integration activities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, CBIZ recognized a charge of approximately
$1.8 million for lease consolidation related activities as part of the acquisition of Goldstein Lewin & Company (see Note 19). Other charges against income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 related to net present value of
interest and changes in assumptions for spaces under sub-lease. Activity during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in thousands):   








 
  
Consolidationand IntegrationReserve
 

 Reserve balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
1,128
  

 Adjustments against income(1)
  
 
2,288
  

 Payments(2)
  
 
(1,379
) 


  
  
  
 

 Reserve balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
2,037
  

 Adjustments against income(1)
  
 
831
  

 Payments(2)
  
 
(1,162
) 


  
  
  
 

 Reserve balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
1,706
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Adjustments against income are included in “operating expenses” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. 
 


(2)
Payments are net of sub-lease payments received. 
  F-32



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Cash commitments required under these obligations are included in the schedule of future minimum cash
commitments in Note 10. Determination of the consolidation and integration reserve includes significant judgment and estimates by management, primarily with respect to CBIZ’s ability to sublease vacated space. Actual results could differ from
those estimates.  Consolidation and integration charges incurred during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 that were
recorded as operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations were as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Lease consolidation and abandonment
  
$
831
  
  
$
2,288
  
  
$
756
  

 Severance and other consolidation expenses
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total consolidation and integration charges
  
$
831
  
  
$
2,288
  
  
$
759
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


13.
Employee Benefits 
Employee Savings Plan 
CBIZ sponsors a qualified 401(k) defined contribution plan that covers substantially all of its employees. Participating employees may elect to
contribute, on a tax-deferred basis, up to 80% of their pre-tax annual compensation (subject to a maximum permissible contribution under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code). Matching contributions by CBIZ are 50% of the first 6% of
base compensation that the participant contributes, and additional amounts may be contributed at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Participants may elect to invest their contributions in various funds including: equity, fixed income, stable
value, and balanced – lifecycle funds. Employer contributions (net of forfeitures) made to the plan during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were approximately $7.9 million, $8.4 million and $7.9 million, respectively.
 Deferred Compensation Plan 
CBIZ sponsors a deferred compensation plan, under which certain members of management and other highly compensated employees may elect to defer receipt of
a portion of their annual compensation, subject to maximum and minimum percentage limitations. The amount of compensation deferred under the plan is credited to each participant’s deferral account and a deferred compensation plan obligation is
established by CBIZ. An amount equal to each participant’s compensation deferral is transferred into a rabbi trust and invested in various debt and equity securities as directed by the participants. The assets of the rabbi trust are held by
CBIZ and recorded as “Assets of deferred compensation plan” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  Assets of the deferred
compensation plan consist primarily of investments in mutual funds, money market funds and equity securities. The values of these investments are based on published market prices at the end of the period. Adjustments to the fair value of these
investments are recorded in “Other income, net”, offset by the same adjustments to compensation expense (recorded as operating expenses or corporate general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations). For the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, CBIZ recorded (losses) or gains of ($0.4) million, $3.7 million and $5.5 million, respectively, related to these investments. These investments are specifically designated as available to CBIZ
solely for the purpose of paying benefits under the deferred compensation plan. However, the investments in the rabbi trusts would be available to all unsecured general creditors in the event that CBIZ becomes insolvent. 
  F-33



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Deferred compensation plan obligations represent amounts due to plan participants, and consist of
accumulated participant deferrals and changes in fair value of investments thereon since the inception of the plan, net of withdrawals. This liability is an unsecured general obligation of CBIZ, and is recorded as “Deferred compensation plan
obligations” in the consolidated balance sheets.   


14.
Common Stock 
CBIZ’s authorized common stock consists of 250 million shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (“Common
Stock”). The holders of CBIZ’s Common Stock are entitled to one vote for each share held on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. There are no cumulative voting rights with respect to the election of directors. Accordingly, the
holder or holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock will be able to elect the directors of CBIZ then standing for election as terms expire. Holders of Common Stock have no preemptive rights and are entitled to such dividends as
may be declared by the Board of Directors of CBIZ out of funds legally available. The holders of CBIZ’s Common Stock are not entitled to any sinking fund, redemption or conversion rights. On liquidation, dissolution or winding up of CBIZ, the
holders of Common Stock are entitled to share ratably in the net assets of CBIZ remaining after the payment of any and all creditors. The outstanding shares of Common Stock are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
 In 2006, CBIZ filed a registration statement with the SEC to register an undeterminable number of shares of Common Stock issuable by the
Company upon conversion (the “Conversion Shares”) of the Company’s issued and outstanding 2006 Notes. The registration statement was declared effective on August 4, 2006. In September 2010 and June 2011, $60 million and $39.3
million, respectively, of the 2006 Notes were retired by CBIZ, leaving $0.7 million outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Although the Company cannot at this time determine the number of Conversion Shares it will issue upon conversion of the
remaining 2006 Notes, if any, the number of Conversion Shares will be calculated as set out in the S-3 Registration Statement filed by the Company with the SEC on July 21, 2006. In addition, in September 2010, CBIZ issued the 2010 Notes
pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company cannot at this time determine the number of shares of common stock it will issue upon conversion of these notes, although the number of shares of common stock it will
issue, if any, will be calculated as defined in the indenture agreements with U.S. Bank National Association as trustee. The 2006 Notes and 2010 Notes are further discussed in Note 8.  Treasury Stock  CBIZ’s Board of Directors approved various share repurchase programs
that were effective during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Under these programs, shares may be purchased in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions according to SEC rules. The repurchase programs do not
obligate CBIZ to acquire any specific number of shares and may be suspended at any time. Repurchased shares are held in treasury, and may be reserved for future use in connection with acquisitions, employee share plans and other general
purposes. Under CBIZ’s amended credit facility (described in Note 8), there are no limitations on CBIZ’s ability to repurchase CBIZ common stock provided that the Senior Leverage Ratio, as defined by the credit facility, is less than 2.0.
 On September 14, 2010, CBIZ’s Board of Directors authorized a supplemental share repurchase program allowing for an additional
7,716,669 shares of CBIZ’s common stock to be repurchased from CBIZ’s largest shareholder, Westbury (Bermuda) Ltd. (“Westbury”), a company organized by CBIZ founder Michael G. DeGroote. In addition, on September 16, 2010,
CBIZ’s Board of Directors authorized a second supplemental 
  F-34



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

repurchase program allowing for an additional 4,578,894 shares of CBIZ’s common stock to be repurchased using a portion of the proceeds from the 2010 Notes transaction. The total cost of
these two share repurchases was $48.5 million and $25.1 million for the Westbury and 2010 Notes transactions, respectively. See Note 18 for further discussion of the Westbury transaction.  Not including the shares repurchased from the 2010 supplemental share repurchase plans discussed above, CBIZ repurchased 1.4 million, 1.1 million and 1.8 million shares under the share
repurchase programs during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, at a cost (including fees and commissions) of $9.5 million, $7.6 million and $13.3 million, respectively. 
 


15.
Employee Share Plans 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan  On May 12, 2011, the 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) was Amended and Restated which extended the termination date of the ESPP to June 30, 2017. The ESPP allows qualified
employees to purchase shares of common stock through payroll deductions up to a limit of $25,000 of stock per calendar year. The price an employee pays for shares is 85% of the fair market value of CBIZ common stock on the last day of the purchase
period. Purchase periods begin on the sixteenth day of the month and end on the fifteenth day of the subsequent month. Other than a one-year holding period from the date of purchase, there are no vesting or other restrictions on the stock purchased
by employees under the ESPP.  Under the Amended and Restated ESPP, the total number of shares of common stock that can be purchased shall not
exceed two million shares. For each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 0.2 million shares were purchased under the ESPP and approximately $0.2 million was recorded as compensation expense, respectively.
 Stock Awards  Stock awards
outstanding at December 31, 2011 were granted pursuant to the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (“the Plan”), which was Amended and Restated on May 12, 2011 to extend the life of the Plan an additional 10 years, or until 2021. A maximum
of 15.0 million stock options, restricted stock or other stock based compensation awards may be granted under the Plan. Shares subject to award under the Plan may be authorized and unissued shares of CBIZ common stock or may be treasury shares.
 CBIZ granted stock options and restricted stock awards under the Plan. The terms and vesting schedules for stock-based awards vary by type
and date of grant. At December 31, 2011, approximately 4.2 million shares were available for future grant. 
  F-35



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
CBIZ utilized the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options
on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were determined using the following weighted average assumptions: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Expected volatility(1)
  
 
32.24
% 
 
 
32.70
% 
 
 
35.17
% 

 Expected option life (years)(2)
  
 
4.85
  
 
 
4.61
  
 
 
4.43
  

 Risk-free interest rate(3)
  
 
2.20
% 
 
 
2.05
% 
 
 
1.89
% 

 Expected dividend yield(4)
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
0.00
% 
 
 
0.00
% 
  


(1)
The expected volatility assumption was determined based upon the historical volatility of CBIZ’s stock price, using daily price intervals.
  


(2)
The expected option life was determined based upon CBIZ’s historical data using a midpoint scenario, which assumes all options are exercised halfway between the
expiration date and the weighted average time it takes the option to vest.   


(3)
The risk-free interest rate assumption was based upon zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bonds with a term approximating the expected life of the respective options.
  


(4)
The expected dividend yield assumption was determined in view of CBIZ’s historical and estimated dividend payouts. CBIZ does not expect to change its dividend
payout policy in the foreseeable future.  During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, CBIZ recognized
compensation expense for these awards as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Stock options
  
$
3,137
  
  
$
2,936
  
  
$
2,748
  

 Restricted stock awards
  
 
2,817
  
  
 
2,370
  
  
 
2,006
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total stock-based compensation expense before income tax benefit
  
$
5,954
  
  
$
5,306
  
  
$
4,754
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Stock Options  Stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were generally subject to a 25% incremental vesting schedule over a four-year period commencing from the date of grant.
Stock options expire six years from the date of grant, and are awarded with an exercise price equal to the market value of CBIZ’s common stock on the date of grant.  At the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, options awarded under the plans may vest immediately or in a time period shorter than four years. Under each of the plans, stock
options awarded to non-employee directors have generally been granted with immediate vesting.  Stock options may be granted alone or in
addition to other awards and may be of two types: incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options. In the event the optionee of an incentive stock option owns, at the time such stock option is awarded or granted, more than ten percent of the
voting power of all classes of stock of CBIZ, the option price shall not be less than 110% of such fair market value. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, no individual who may receive options had an ownership in excess of
ten percent of the voting power of all classes of CBIZ stock. 
  F-36



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Stock option activity during the year ended December 31, 2011 was as follows: 
 




















 
  
Number
ofOptions(in thousands)
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice PerShare
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue(in millions)
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
5,653
  
 
$
7.42
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
1,501
  
 
$
7.41
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(220
) 
 
$
3.50
  
  



  




 Expired or canceled
  
 
(109
) 
 
$
7.38
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
6,825
  
 
$
7.54
  
  
 
3.3 years
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Vested and exercisable atDecember 31, 2011
  
 
3,350
  
 
$
7.76
  
  
 
2.1 years
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  



 The weighted-average grant-date fair value of stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009 was $3.5 million, $3.0 million and $3.3 million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0.8 million, $0.8 million and $1.3 million,
respectively. The intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between CBIZ’s stock price on the exercise date and the exercise price of each option exercised. At December 31, 2011, CBIZ had unrecognized compensation cost for non-vested
stock options of $8.1 million to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.4 years.  Restricted Stock Awards
 Under the Plan, certain employees and non-employee directors were granted restricted stock awards. Restricted stock awards are independent
of option grants, and are granted at no cost to the recipients. The awards are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates prior to the release of restrictions, generally one to four years from the date of grant. Recipients of restricted stock
awards are entitled to the same dividend and voting rights as holders of other CBIZ common stock, subject to certain restrictions during the vesting period, and the awards are considered to be issued and outstanding from the date of grant. Shares
granted under the plan cannot be sold, pledged, transferred or assigned during the vesting period.  Restricted stock award activity during the
year ended December 31, 2011 was as follows:   












 
  
Number
ofShares(in thousands)
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant-Date
Fair Value(1)
 

 Non-vested at December 31, 2010
  
 
825
  
 
$
7.33
  

 Granted
  
 
483
  
 
$
7.34
  

 Vested
  
 
(325
) 
 
$
7.43
  

 Forfeited
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Non-vested at December 31, 2011
  
 
983
  
 
$
7.30
  


  
  
  
 
 



  


(1)
Represents weighted average market value of the shares as the awards are granted at no cost to the recipients. 
At December 31, 2011, CBIZ had unrecognized compensation cost for restricted stock awards of $6.0 million to be recognized over a weighted average
period of approximately 1.3 years. The total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $2.4 million, $2.3 million and $1.8 million, respectively. The market value of shares awarded
during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 
  F-37



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

and 2009 was $3.6 million, $2.6 million and $2.9 million, respectively. This market value was recorded as unearned compensation and is being expensed ratably over the periods which the
restrictions lapse. Awards outstanding at December 31, 2011 will be released from restrictions at dates ranging from February 2012 through April 2015.   


16.
Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by diluted weighted average shares. Diluted weighted average shares are determined using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period plus the
dilutive effect of potential future issues of common stock relating to CBIZ’s stock award programs, CBIZ’s convertible senior subordinated notes, business acquisitions, and other potentially dilutive securities. In calculating diluted
earnings per share, the dilutive effect of stock awards is computed using the average market price for the period, in accordance with the treasury stock method.  As described in Note 8, CBIZ’s 2006 Notes and 2010 Notes may result in future issuances of CBIZ common stock. Under the net share settlement method, potential shares issuable under the 2006 Notes and
2010 Notes will be considered dilutive, and will be included in the calculation of diluted weighted average shares if the Company’s market price per share exceeds the conversion price of $10.63 for the 2006 Notes and $7.41 of the 2010 Notes. As
of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s average market price per share had not exceeded the conversion price of the 2006 Notes or 2010 Notes.  The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (in thousands, except per share data): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Numerator:
  



  



  




 Income from continuing operations
  
$
28,584
  
  
$
28,155
  
  
$
32,052
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



  



  




 Basic
  



  



  




 Weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
49,328
  
  
 
57,692
  
  
 
61,200
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted
  



  



  




 Stock Options(1)
  
 
61
  
  
 
106
  
  
 
232
  

 Restricted stock awards(1)
  
 
179
  
  
 
135
  
  
 
139
  

 Contingent shares(2)
  
 
31
  
  
 
260
  
  
 
288
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
49,599
  
  
 
58,193
  
  
 
61,859
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings Per Share:
  



  



  




 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations
  
$
0.58
  
  
$
0.49
  
  
$
0.52
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations
  
$
0.58
  
  
$
0.48
  
  
$
0.52
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
    


(1)
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, a total of 6,429, 5,382 and 4,483 stock based awards (in thousands), respectively, were excluded from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share as their exercise prices would render them anti-dilutive.   


(2)
Contingent shares represent additional shares to be issued for purchase price earned by former owners of businesses acquired by CBIZ once future conditions have been
met. See Note 19 for further discussion of acquisitions. 
  F-38



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   


17.
Supplemental Cash Flow Disclosures 
Cash paid for interest and income taxes during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was as follows (in thousands):
  
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Interest
  
$
13,020
  
  
$
7,822
  
  
$
8,545
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income taxes
  
$
22,377
  
  
$
18,412
  
  
$
18,786
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Supplemental Disclosures of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities 
Non-cash investing and financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Business acquisitions, including contingent consideration earned
  
$
19,601
  
  
$
19,115
  
  
$
17,483
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Estimated contingent purchase price payable
  
$
9,735
  
  
$
11,689
  
  
$
5,575
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Proceeds from sales of divested and discontinued operations
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
647
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Non-cash consideration paid for business acquisitions and intangible assets and proceeds received from divested operations
were generally in the form of notes receivable, notes payable and CBIZ common stock.   


18.
Related Parties 
The following is a summary of certain agreements and transactions between or among CBIZ and certain related parties. It is CBIZ’s
policy to enter into transactions with related parties on terms that are no less favorable than those that would be available from unaffiliated parties. Based on CBIZ’s experience and the terms of its transactions with unaffiliated parties, it
is the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors’ and managements’ belief that the transactions described below met these standards at the time of the transactions. Management reviews these transactions as they occur and monitors them for
compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct, internal procedures and applicable legal requirements. The Audit Committee reviews and ratifies such transactions annually, or as they are more frequently brought to the attention of the Committee
by the Company’s Director of Internal Audit, General Counsel or other members of Management.  Pursuant to an agreement (the
“Westbury Agreement”) entered into on September 14, 2010 by CBIZ with its largest shareholder, Westbury, CBIZ purchased 7,716,669 shares of CBIZ’s common stock at $6.25 per share for a total cost of approximately $48.5 million.
Pursuant to the Westbury Agreement, CBIZ also purchased an option for $5.0 million, which expires on September 30, 2013, to purchase up to approximately 7.7 million shares of CBIZ’s common stock at a price of $7.25 per share, which
constitutes the remaining shares of CBIZ’s common stock held by Westbury. As of December 31, 2011, this option had not been exercised.  A number of the businesses acquired by CBIZ are located in properties owned indirectly by and leased from persons employed by CBIZ, none of whom are members of CBIZ’s senior management. In the
aggregate, CBIZ paid approximately $0.7 million, $0.8 million and $1.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, under such leases which management believes were at market rates. 
  F-39



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Rick L. Burdick, a director of CBIZ, is a partner of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP
(“Akin Gump”). Akin Gump performed legal work for CBIZ during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 for which the firm received approximately $0.5 million, $0.8 million and $0.4 million from CBIZ, respectively. 
Robert A. O’Byrne, President, Employee Services, has an interest in a partnership that receives commissions from CBIZ that are paid to certain
eligible benefits and insurance producers in accordance with a formal program to provide benefits in the event of death, disability, retirement or other termination. The program was in existence at the time CBIZ acquired the former company, of which
Mr. O’Byrne was an owner. During 2011 and 2010, the partnership did not receive any payments from CBIZ, and during the year ended December 31, 2009 the partnership received from CBIZ approximately $0.1 million. 
CBIZ maintains joint-referral relationships and administrative service agreements with independent licensed CPA firms under which CBIZ provides
administrative services in exchange for a fee. These firms are owned by licensed CPAs who are employed by CBIZ subsidiaries, and provide audit and attest services to clients including CBIZ’s clients. The CPA firms with which CBIZ maintains
service agreements operate as limited liability companies, limited liability partnerships or professional corporations. The firms are separate legal entities with separate governing bodies and officers. CBIZ has no ownership interest in any of these
CPA firms, and neither the existence of the administrative service agreements nor the providing of services there under is intended to constitute control of the CPA firms by CBIZ. CBIZ and the CPA firms maintain their own respective liability and
risk of loss in connection with performance of each of its respective services, and CBIZ does not believe that its arrangements with these CPA firms result in additional risk of loss.  CBIZ acted as guarantor for letters of credit for a CPA firm with which it has an affiliation. The letters of credit totaled $5.2 million and $3.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. CBIZ has recognized a liability for the fair value of the obligations undertaken in issuing these guarantees, which is recorded as other current liabilities in the consolidated financial statements. Management does not expect any
material changes to result from these instruments as performance is not expected to be required.   


19.
Acquisitions 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, CBIZ acquired four companies: Thompson Dunavant PLC, Multiple Benefit Services, Inc.
(“MBS”), Gresham Smith LLC and Atlantic MDR, LLC (d/b/a Advantage Benefit Planning) (“ABP”). Thompson Dunavant PLC, a full-service accounting and financial services company located in Memphis, Tennessee, provides tax and
financial consulting services to clients of various sizes and in a variety of industries. MBS, an employee benefits company located in Atlanta, Georgia, provides employee benefit consulting and support services to clients in a wide variety of
industries. Gresham Smith LLC, with offices in Tulsa, Oklahoma and St. Louis, Missouri, provides traditional accounting services to privately held, for profit clients. ABP, located in Pleasantville, New Jersey, provides employee benefits and
retirement planning services. The operating results of Thompson Dunavant PLC and Gresham Smith LLC are reported in the Financial Services practice group. The operating results of MBS and ABP are reported in the Employee Services practice group.
 Aggregate consideration for these acquisitions is expected to be approximately $29.6 million, which consists of $11.8 million in cash and
$3.3 million in CBIZ common stock that was paid at closing, $1.1 million in guaranteed future consideration, and $13.4 million net present value in contingent consideration to be settled primarily in cash and a portion in common stock, subject to
the acquired operations achieving certain performance targets. 
  F-40



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
The preliminary aggregate purchase price for these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in thousands):
  








 Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed:
   

 Cash
  
$
273
  

 Accounts receivable
  
 
1,835
  

 Unbilled revenue
  
 
1,771
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
212
  

 Fixed assets
  
 
225
  

 Identifiable intangible assets
  
 
11,072
  

 Deferred income taxes — non-current
  
 
(1,775
) 

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
(924
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total identifiable net assets
  
$
12,689
  

 Goodwill
  
 
16,869
  


  
  
  
 

 Aggregate purchase price
  
$
29,558
  


  
  
  
 
 Under the terms of the acquisition agreements, a portion of the purchase price is contingent on future performance of the
businesses acquired. The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that CBIZ could be required to make under the contingent arrangements is between $0 and $15.1 million. CBIZ is required to record the fair value of these obligations at
the acquisition date. CBIZ determined, utilizing a probability weighted income approach, that the fair value of the contingent consideration arrangements was $13.4 million, of which $4.1 million was recorded in “Other current liabilities”
and $9.3 million was recorded in “Other non-current liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2011.  The
goodwill of $16.9 million arising from the acquisitions in the current year consists largely of expected future earnings and cash flow from the existing management team, as well as the synergies created by the integration of the new businesses
within the CBIZ organization, including cross-selling opportunities expected with the Company’s Financial Services group and the Employee Services group, to help strengthen the Company’s existing service offerings and expand the
Company’s market position. Goodwill totaling $11.8 million is deductible for income tax purposes.  CBIZ also purchased one client list in
2011 which is reported in the Employee Services practice group. Consideration for this acquisition consisted of $0.8 million cash paid at closing and up to an additional $0.6 million in cash which is contingent upon future financial performance of
the client list.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, CBIZ reduced the fair value of the contingent purchase price liability related
to CBIZ’s prior acquisitions by $3.5 million due to lower than originally projected future results of the acquired businesses. This reduction of $3.5 million is included in “Other income, net” in the consolidated statements of
operations. See Note 8 for further discussion of contingent purchase price liabilities.  In addition, CBIZ paid $16.7 million in cash, issued
approximately 38,900 shares of common stock, and 251,100 shares of common stock became issuable during the year ended December 31, 2011 as contingent proceeds and payments against notes payable for previous acquisitions. 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, CBIZ acquired substantially all of the assets of four companies: Goldstein Lewin & Company,
National Benefit Alliance, South Winds, Inc. (dba “Benexx”) and Kirkland, Russ, Murphy & Tapp. Goldstein Lewin & Company, an accounting and financial services company located in Boca Raton, Florida, purchased on
January 1, 2010, provides accounting services and financial advisory services, tax 
  F-41



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   

planning and compliance, wealth preservation and estate planning, business valuation and litigation support. National Benefit Alliance, an employee benefits company located in Midvale, Utah,
purchased on January 1, 2010, designs, implements and administers employee benefit plans for government contractors as well as commercial clients. Benexx, a retirement plan consulting firm located in Baltimore, Maryland, purchased on
August 1, 2010, provides 401K and other qualified retirement plan services for small and mid-sized companies. Kirkland, Russ, Murphy & Tapp, an accounting and financial services company located in Tampa, Florida, purchased on
November 1, 2010, provides assurance, tax, business valuation, financial advisory and consulting services. The operating results of Goldstein Lewin & Company and Kirkland, Russ, Murphy & Tapp are reported in the Financial
Services practice group and the operating results of National Benefit Alliance and Benexx are reported in the Employee Services practice group. 
Aggregate consideration for these acquisitions is expected to be approximately $49.6 million, which consists of $29.4 million in cash and $3.5 million in
CBIZ common stock that was paid at closing, $0.4 million in guaranteed future consideration, and $16.3 million net present value in contingent consideration to be settled primarily in cash and a portion in common stock, subject to the acquired
operations achieving certain performance targets.  The aggregate purchase price for these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in
thousands):   








 Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed:
   

 Accounts receivable, net
  
$
597
  

 Work in process, net
  
 
697
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
1,430
  

 Fixed assets
  
 
1,659
  

 Identifiable intangible assets
  
 
11,550
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
(303
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total identifiable net assets
  
$
15,630
  

 Goodwill
  
 
33,986
  


  
  
  
 

 Aggregate purchase price
  
$
49,616
  


  
  
  
 
 Under the terms of the acquisition agreements, a portion of the purchase price is contingent on future performance of the
businesses acquired. The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that CBIZ could be required to make under the contingent arrangements is between $0 and $17.0 million. At the acquisition date, CBIZ is required to record the fair value
of these obligations, which was $16.3 million, utilizing a probability weighted income approach. During 2010, payments totaling $3.3 million consisting of cash and stock were paid as contingent consideration that related to the 2010 acquisitions. At
December 31, 2010, the remaining fair value of the contingent consideration arrangements related to the 2010 acquisitions was $13.1 million, of which $2.6 million was recorded in “Other current liabilities” and $10.5 million was
recorded in “Other non-current liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheets.  The goodwill of $34.0 million arising from the
acquisitions in 2010 consists largely of expected future earnings and cash flows from the existing management team, as well as the synergies created by the integration of the new businesses within the CBIZ organization, including cross-selling
opportunities expected with the Company’s Financial Services group and the Employee Services group, to help strengthen the Company’s existing service offerings and expand the Company’s market position. The goodwill recognized is
deductible for income tax purposes. 
  F-42



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
During 2010, CBIZ adjusted the fair value of the contingent purchase price liability related to
CBIZ’s prior acquisitions from $5.6 million to $4.2 million due to lower than originally projected future results of the acquired businesses. This reduction of $1.4 million is included in “Other income, net” in the consolidated
statements of operations. In addition, CBIZ paid $20.0 million in cash, issued approximately 13,100 shares of common stock, and 265,000 shares of common stock became issuable during the year ended December 31, 2010 as contingent proceeds and
payments against notes payable for previous acquisitions.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, CBIZ acquired substantially all of
the assets of two businesses. EAO Consultants, LLC, a New Jersey based employee benefits firm, was acquired on July 1, 2009, and MeyersDining, LLC, a Boulder, Colorado based insurance agency, was acquired on September 30, 2009. The
acquisitions will enable CBIZ to broaden the range of services it offers in the New York and New Jersey markets and in the Boulder and Denver, Colorado markets. The operating results of the acquisitions are included in the consolidated financial
statements from the date of acquisition and are reported in the Employee Services practice group.  Aggregate consideration for these
acquisitions is expected to be approximately $14.3 million, which consists of $7.8 million in cash, $0.9 in CBIZ common stock and $5.6 million in contingent consideration, subject to the acquired operations achieving certain performance targets.
 The aggregate purchase price for these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in thousands): 
 








 Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed:
   

 Fixed assets
  
$
27
  

 Identifiable intangible assets
  
 
4,768
  

 Financial liabilities
  
 
(5
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total identifiable net assets
  
$
4,790
  

 Goodwill
  
 
9,489
  


  
  
  
 

 Aggregate purchase price
  
$
14,279
  


  
  
  
 
 Under the terms of the acquisition agreements, a portion of the purchase price is contingent on future performance of the
businesses acquired. The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that CBIZ could be required to make under the contingent arrangements is between $0 and $6.1 million. At the acquisition date, CBIZ was required to record the fair value
of these obligations, which was $5.6 million, utilizing a probability weighted income approach. The fair value of these contingent consideration arrangements was recorded in “Other non-current liabilities” on the consolidated balance
sheets at December 31, 2009.  The goodwill of $9.5 million arising from the acquisitions consists largely of expected future earnings and
cash flow from the acquired management team, as well as the synergies created by the integration of the new businesses within the CBIZ organization, including cross selling opportunities expected with the Financial Services group and the Employee
Services group to help strengthen the Company’s existing service offerings and expand its market position. The goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes.  In addition, CBIZ purchased two client lists in 2009, one of which is reported in the Financial Services practice group and the other is reported in the Employee Services practice group. Aggregate
consideration for these acquisitions consisted of $0.1 million cash paid at closing and up to an additional $0.4 million in cash which is contingent upon future financial performance of the client lists. In addition, CBIZ paid $12.8 million in cash
and issued approximately 131,600 shares of common stock during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 as contingent proceeds and payments against notes payable for previous acquisitions. 
  F-43



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
The operating results of all acquired businesses are included in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements since the dates of acquisition. Client lists and non-compete agreements are recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, (including client lists and
non-compete agreements) is allocated to goodwill.  Additions to goodwill, client lists and other intangible assets resulting from acquisitions
and contingent consideration earned during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Goodwill
  
$
35,647
  
  
$
52,966
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Client lists
  
$
12,129
  
  
$
10,970
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other intangible assets
  
$
512
  
  
$
580
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


20.
Discontinued Operations and Divestitures 
CBIZ will divest (through sale or closure) business operations that do not contribute to the Company’s long-term objectives for
growth, or that are not complementary to its target service offerings and markets. Divestitures are classified as discontinued operations provided they meet the criteria as provided in FASB ASC 205 “Presentation of Financial Statements —
Discontinued Operations — Other Presentation Matters”.  Discontinued Operations 
Gains or losses from the sale of discontinued operations are recorded as “Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax”, in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, proceeds that are contingent upon a divested operation’s actual future performance are recorded as gain on sale of discontinued operations in the period they are earned.
During the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, CBIZ sold a business from the Financial Services practice group and will receive contingent proceeds from this sale transaction based on revenue over the next three-year period. As part of the
sale of this business, CBIZ reduced its goodwill balance by approximately $0.3 million.  During the twelve months ended December 31,
2010, CBIZ sold two businesses and closed one business from the National Practices group. Proceeds from the sales of the two businesses consisted of $0.2 million in cash and resulted in a pre-tax loss of approximately $0.7 million, and the office
closure resulted in a pre-tax loss of approximately $1.1 million.  During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, CBIZ did not sell
any operations. Gains recorded for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 related to contingent proceeds of $0.2 million for a Financial Services operation that was sold during 2007 and an adjustment to reserves established for an operation
that was closed in 2008. 
  F-44



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Revenue and results from operations of discontinued operations for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009 are separately reported as “Loss from operations of discontinued operations, net of tax” in the consolidated statements of operations and were as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenue
  
$
943
  
 
$
5,586
  
 
$
16,711
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from operations of discontinued operations before income tax benefit
  
$
(957
) 
 
$
(4,408
) 
 
$
(1,555
) 

 Income tax benefit
  
 
366
  
 
 
1,740
  
 
 
689
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from operations of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
$
(591
) 
 
$
(2,668
) 
 
$
(866
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Gains (losses) on disposals of discontinued operations for the years ended December 31 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as
follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations, before income tax (expense) benefit
  
$
207
  
 
$
(1,785
) 
 
$
350
  

 Income tax (expense) benefit
  
 
(193
) 
 
 
812
  
 
 
(140
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
$
14
  
 
$
(973
) 
 
$
210
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the assets and liabilities of businesses classified as discontinued operations are
reported separately in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and consisted of the following (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Assets:
  



  




 Accounts receivable, net
  
$
38
  
  
$
381
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  

 Other current assets
  
 
521
  
  
 
258
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Assets of discontinued operations
  
$
559
  
  
$
640
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities:
  



  




 Accounts payable
  
$
—
  
  
$
90
  

 Accrued personnel costs
  
 
8
  
  
 
228
  

 Other current liabilities
  
 
191
  
  
 
244
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities of discontinued operations
  
$
199
  
  
$
562
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Divestitures  Gains or losses from divested operations and assets that do not qualify for treatment as discontinued operations are recorded as “Gain on sale of operations, net” in the consolidated statements
of operations and totaled gains of $2.9 million, $0.5 million and $1.0 million the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These gains relate to sales made in the respective period, contingent consideration earned on sales
made in previous periods, and deferred gains that are recognized as cash payments are received. CBIZ received cash proceeds for divestiture activity totaling $0.9 million, $7.9 million and $0.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. As a result of the sale of CBIZ’s individual wealth management business on January 1, 2011, goodwill was reduced by $2.2 million. 
  F-45



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   


21.
Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in
thousands, except per share amounts).   




















 
  
2011
 

 
  
March 31,
 
 
June 30,
 
 
September 30,
 
 
December 31,
 

 Revenue
  
$
210,069
  
 
$
183,464
  
 
$
177,349
  
 
$
162,923
  

 Operating expenses
  
 
169,626
  
 
 
160,289
  
 
 
154,249
  
 
 
159,703
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
  
 
40,443
  
 
 
23,175
  
 
 
23,100
  
 
 
3,220
  

 Corporate general and administrative
  
 
9,661
  
 
 
6,850
  
 
 
8,175
  
 
 
7,299
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
30,782
  
 
 
16,325
  
 
 
14,925
  
 
 
(4,079
) 

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
(4,915
) 
 
 
(4,407
) 
 
 
(4,049
) 
 
 
(3,984
) 

 Gain on sale of operations, net
  
 
2,743
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
87
  
 
 
88
  

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
3,081
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
(4,510
) 
 
 
4,851
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense), net
  
 
909
  
 
 
(4,378
) 
 
 
(8,472
) 
 
 
955
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
31,691
  
 
 
11,947
  
 
 
6,453
  
 
 
(3,124
) 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
13,587
  
 
 
5,095
  
 
 
1,614
  
 
 
(1,913
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
18,104
  
 
 
6,852
  
 
 
4,839
  
 
 
(1,211
) 

 (Loss) income from operations of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
(239
) 
 
 
(331
) 
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
25
  

 Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
40
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
20
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
17,905
  
 
$
6,551
  
 
$
4,717
  
 
$
(1,166
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per share(1):
  



 



 



 




 Basic:
  



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
0.37
  
 
$
0.14
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
(0.02
) 

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
0.36
  
 
$
0.13
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
(0.02
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
0.36
  
 
$
0.14
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
(0.02
) 

 Discontinued operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
0.36
  
 
$
0.13
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
(0.02
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic weighted average common shares
  
 
49,322
  
 
 
49,615
  
 
 
49,525
  
 
 
48,854
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted weighted average common shares
  
 
49,755
  
 
 
49,958
  
 
 
49,920
  
 
 
48,854
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 During the fourth quarter of 2011, CBIZ reduced the fair value of the contingent purchase price liability related to
CBIZ’s prior acquisitions by $2.3 million due to lower than originally projected future results of the acquired businesses. This reduction of $2.3 million is included in “Other income (expense), net” in the consolidated statements of
operations.   
  F-46



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   




















 
  
2010
 

 
  
March 31,
 
 
June 30,
 
 
September 30,
 
 
December 31,
 

 Revenue
  
$
209,543
  
 
$
180,113
  
 
$
175,961
  
 
$
164,784
  

 Operating expenses
  
 
171,636
  
 
 
158,321
  
 
 
157,328
  
 
 
157,050
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
  
 
37,907
  
 
 
21,792
  
 
 
18,633
  
 
 
7,734
  

 Corporate general and administrative
  
 
8,984
  
 
 
6,638
  
 
 
6,877
  
 
 
7,085
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
28,923
  
 
 
15,154
  
 
 
11,756
  
 
 
649
  

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
(3,168
) 
 
 
(3,411
) 
 
 
(3,735
) 
 
 
(4,994
) 

 Gain on sale of operations, net
  
 
374
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
1
  

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
2,173
  
 
 
(2,047
) 
 
 
1,015
  
 
 
2,391
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expense, net
  
 
(621
) 
 
 
(5,456
) 
 
 
(2,631
) 
 
 
(2,602
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
28,302
  
 
 
9,698
  
 
 
9,125
  
 
 
(1,953
) 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
11,471
  
 
 
2,711
  
 
 
3,591
  
 
 
(756
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
16,831
  
 
 
6,987
  
 
 
5,534
  
 
 
(1,197
) 

 Loss from operations of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
(411
) 
 
 
(969
) 
 
 
(739
) 
 
 
(549
) 

 (Loss) gain on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
(436
) 
 
 
(596
) 
 
 
37
  
 
 
22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
15,984
  
 
$
5,422
  
 
$
4,832
  
 
$
(1,724
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per share(1):
  



 



 



 




 Basic:
  



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
0.27
  
 
$
0.11
  
 
$
0.09
  
 
$
(0.02
) 

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
0.26
  
 
$
0.09
  
 
$
0.08
  
 
$
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
0.27
  
 
$
0.11
  
 
$
0.09
  
 
$
(0.02
) 

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
0.26
  
 
$
0.09
  
 
$
0.08
  
 
$
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic weighted average common shares
  
 
61,509
  
 
 
61,448
  
 
 
59,108
  
 
 
48,825
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted weighted average common shares
  
 
62,065
  
 
 
61,837
  
 
 
59,579
  
 
 
48,825
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
The sum of the quarterly net income per share amounts do not equal the reported annual amount as each is computed independently based upon the weighted-average number
of shares outstanding for the period.  During the fourth quarter of 2010, CBIZ committed to the divestiture of one operation in
the Financial Services practices group. This divestiture qualified as a discontinued operation, and as such required restatement of prior period results of operations to move the discontinued operations from “Income (loss) from continuing
operations” to “Loss from operations of discontinued operations, net of tax.” 
  F-47



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   


22.
Segment Disclosures 
CBIZ’s business units have been aggregated into four practice groups: Financial Services; Employee Services; MMP; and National
Practices. The business units have been aggregated based on the following factors: similarity of the products and services provided to clients; similarity of the regulatory environment; and similarity of economic conditions affecting long-term
performance. The business units are managed along these segment lines.  A general description of services provided by practice group is
provided in the table below.   










 Financial Services
 
 Employee Services
 
 MMP
 
 National Practices






 • Accounting
• Tax • Financial Advisory
• Valuation
• Litigation Support
• Internal Audit
• Family Office Services
• Fraud Detection
• Real Estate Advisory
 
 • Employee Benefits
• Property & Casualty
• Retirement Plan Services
• Payroll Services
• Life Insurance
• Human Capital Services
• Compensation Consulting
• Recruiting
• Actuarial Services
 
 • Coding and Billing
• Accounts Receivable Management
• Full Practice Management Services
 
 • Managed Networking and Hardware Services
• Health Care Consulting
• Mergers & Acquisitions
 Corporate and Other.    Included in Corporate and Other are operating expenses that are not
directly allocated to the individual business units. These expenses are primarily comprised of certain health care costs, gains or losses attributable to assets held in the Company’s deferred compensation plan, stock-based compensation,
consolidation and integration charges, certain advertising costs and other various expenses.  Accounting policies of the practice groups are
the same as those described in Note 1. Upon consolidation, intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated, thus inter-segment revenue is not included in the measure of profit or loss for the practice groups. Performance of the practice groups
is evaluated on operating income excluding the costs of certain infrastructure functions (such as information systems, finance and accounting, human resources, legal and marketing), which are reported in the “Corporate and Other” segment.
 CBIZ operates in the United States and Canada and revenue generated from such operations during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009 was as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 United States
  
$
732,140
  
  
$
728,850
  
  
$
735,349
  

 Canada
  
 
1,665
  
  
 
1,551
  
  
 
1,438
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Revenue
  
$
733,805
  
  
$
730,401
  
  
$
736,787
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 There is no one customer that represents a significant portion of CBIZ’s revenue. 
  F-48



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   
Segment information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in
thousands):   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
FinancialServices
 
 
EmployeeServices
 
 
MMP
 
  
NationalPractices
 
 
Corporateand Other
 
 
Total
 

 Revenue
  
$
391,232
  
 
$
171,205
  
 
$
141,046
  
  
$
30,322
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
733,805
  

 Operating expenses
  
 
337,304
  
 
 
144,126
  
 
 
124,790
  
  
 
26,222
  
 
 
11,425
  
 
 
643,867
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
  
 
53,928
  
 
 
27,079
  
 
 
16,256
  
  
 
4,100
  
 
 
(11,425
) 
 
 
89,938
  

 Corporate general & admin
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
31,985
  
 
 
31,985
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
53,928
  
 
 
27,079
  
 
 
16,256
  
  
 
4,100
  
 
 
(43,410
) 
 
 
57,953
  

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(17,325
) 
 
 
(17,355
) 

 Gain on sale of operations, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
2,920
  
 
 
2,920
  

 Other income, net
  
 
26
  
 
 
780
  
 
 
248
  
  
 
10
  
 
 
2,385
  
 
 
3,449
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
24
  
 
 
752
  
 
 
248
  
  
 
10
  
 
 
(12,020
) 
 
 
(10,986
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense
  
$
53,952
  
 
$
27,831
  
 
$
16,504
  
  
$
4,110
  
 
$
(55,430
) 
 
$
46,967
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FinancialServices
 
 
EmployeeServices
 
 
MMP
 
  
NationalPractices
 
 
Corporateand Other
 
 
Total
 

 Revenue
  
$
380,130
  
 
$
174,097
  
 
$
148,425
  
  
$
27,749
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
730,401
  

 Operating expenses
  
 
326,412
  
 
 
144,552
  
 
 
131,897
  
  
 
25,794
  
 
 
15,680
  
 
 
644,335
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
  
 
53,718
  
 
 
29,545
  
 
 
16,528
  
  
 
1,955
  
 
 
(15,680
) 
 
 
86,066
  

 Corporate general & admin
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
29,584
  
 
 
29,584
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
53,718
  
 
 
29,545
  
 
 
16,528
  
  
 
1,955
  
 
 
(45,264
) 
 
 
56,482
  

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(15,277
) 
 
 
(15,308
) 

 Gain on sale of operations, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
466
  

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
201
  
 
 
323
  
 
 
300
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
2,709
  
 
 
3,532
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
195
  
 
 
298
  
 
 
300
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(12,102
) 
 
 
(11,310
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense
  
$
53,913
  
 
$
29,843
  
 
$
16,828
  
  
$
1,954
  
 
$
(57,366
) 
 
$
45,172
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
FinancialServices
 
 
EmployeeServices
 
 
MMP
 
  
NationalPractices
 
 
Corporateand Other
 
 
Total
 

 Revenue
  
$
377,341
  
 
$
170,846
  
 
$
160,632
  
  
$
27,968
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
736,787
  

 Operating expenses
  
 
326,515
  
 
 
141,710
  
 
 
139,763
  
  
 
25,002
  
 
 
15,419
  
 
 
648,409
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross margin
  
 
50,826
  
 
 
29,136
  
 
 
20,869
  
  
 
2,966
  
 
 
(15,419
) 
 
 
88,378
  

 Corporate general & admin
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
30,722
  
 
 
30,722
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
50,826
  
 
 
29,136
  
 
 
20,869
  
  
 
2,966
  
 
 
(46,141
) 
 
 
57,656
  

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(13,338
) 
 
 
(13,392
) 

 Gain on sale of operations, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
989
  
 
 
989
  

 Other income, net
  
 
309
  
 
 
1,076
  
 
 
299
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
4,935
  
 
 
6,622
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
283
  
 
 
1,049
  
 
 
299
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
(7,414
) 
 
 
(5,781
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense
  
$
51,109
  
 
$
30,185
  
 
$
21,168
  
  
$
2,968
  
 
$
(53,555
) 
 
$
51,875
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-49



Table of Contents
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARES 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)   


23.
Subsequent Events 
CBIZ acquired Meridian Insurance Group, LLC (“Meridian”) of Boca Raton, FL, effective January 1, 2012. Meridian is an
insurance brokerage specializing in multiple insurance products including property and casualty, bonding, personal lines and employee benefits. The acquisition of Meridian is expected to contribute approximately $4.4 million in revenue to CBIZ
during 2012.  During the first quarter of 2012, CBIZ expects to record an additional gain of approximately $2.5 million relating to the sale
of the individual wealth management business that was sold on January 1, 2011. This additional gain is a result of provisions in the original sales agreement that provided for contingent purchase price to be earned based on the value of the
client list retained by the purchaser as of January 1, 2012. 
  F-50



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
CBIZ, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND  
RESERVES FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009  (In thousands) 
 




























 COLUMN A
  
COLUMN B
 
  
COLUMN C
 
  
COLUMN D
 
 
COLUMN E
 

 
  
 
 
  
Additions
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
Balance atBeginning ofPeriod
 
  
Charged toCost andExpense
 
  
Chargedto OtherAccounts
 
  
AcquisitionsandDivestitures
 
  
Charge-offs,Net ofRecoveries
 
 
Balance atEnd ofPeriod
 

 Year ended December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance deducted from assets to which they apply:
  



  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
10,620
  
  
$
6,494
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
(7,894
) 
 
$
9,220
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended December 31, 2010
  



  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance deducted from assets to which they apply:
  



  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
8,455
  
  
$
4,717
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
(2,552
) 
 
$
10,620
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended December 31, 2009
  



  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance deducted from assets to which they apply:
  



  



  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
7,683
  
  
$
7,959
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
(7,187
) 
 
$
8,455
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-51




